GOOD EVENING
EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO THE
SEPTEMBER 19 MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU&apos;RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
&gt;&gt; I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
FLAG OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA AND TO THE REPUBLIC
FOR WHICH IT STANDS ONE NATION
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL WITH OUR CLARK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER HERE
SMARTISH HERE COUNTERMARCH
GRISWOLD HERE COMES MY SONG.
HERE COMES MY GRAND.
HERE COMES MY DENHA HERE MAYOR
TAYLOR HERE WE&apos;RE HIGHER HERE
COUNCILMAN WILSON HERE.
COUNCILMAN BRICKS HERE.
COUNCILMAN AMAWI PRESENT.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE A QUORUM.
WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCILOR I SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HAYNER DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA COUNCILOR HAYNER.
&gt;&gt; YEAH THANKS MR MAYOR.
I UNDERSTAND THE RULES RIGHT
THIS TIME TO COMMENT ON THINGS
THAT ARE NOT ON OR NOT ON THE
AGENDA.
SO IF WITH THE IF YOU WOULD
PLEASE I&apos;M SORRY MR DHONI ISN&apos;T
HERE AND I CAN SEE HIM IN FRONT
OF ME SO IT&apos;S ACTUALLY BETTER
BECAUSE I HAVE TO BE TURNED
AROUND SIR TO LOOK AT YOU SO
YOU KNOW WE HAVE RULES THAT
DESCRIBE THE EQUAL ACCESS
AGENDA THAT WE&apos;RE SUPPOSED TO
HAVE BUT WE DON&apos;T ALL HAVE
EQUAL ACCESS TO THIS AGENDA IN
THE PAST YEAR OR SO THIS BODY
HAS EITHER THROUGH AFFIRMATIVE
RESOLUTION OR INDIVIDUAL QUEST
ASK FOR ANY NUMBER OF THINGS TO
BE ADDED TO THE AGENDA.
BUT THESE REQUESTS HAVE BEEN
DENIED OR DELAYED SIGNIFICANT
ENOUGH THAT IT IS EFFECTIVELY A
DENIAL.
WE DO NOT ALL HAVE EQUAL ACCESS
TO THIS AGENDA.
AND YOU KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS
FOR THE RESIDENTS OUR CITY IS
THAT THEY&apos;RE BEING DENIED EQUAL
REPRESENTATION AND I CAN GIVE
PLENTY OF EXAMPLES JUST A
HANDFUL WE HAD ONE WHERE WE
ASKED THROUGH A RESOLUTION THAT
A PILOT COMMITTEE BE APPOINTED
TO STUDY THE FEASIBILITY OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN TAKING
SOME PART OF PAYING THEIR FAIR
SHARE FOR THE SERVICES THEY USE
FROM OUR COMMUNITY THAT WAS
NEVER APPOINTED.
I&apos;D ASK I ASK FOR A RESOLUTION
CONSIDERING A REVOCATION OF THE
EMERGENCY POWERS THAT AUTHORIZE
THE MAYOR TO COVID SEVERAL
WEEKS AGO IT TOOK EIGHT DAYS TO
HEAR BACK ON THAT ONE AND IT
HAS YET TO COME FORWARD.
I&apos;VE ASKED VARIOUS THINGS
OF PLANNING STAFF MOST RECENTLY
TO CREATE A NEW ZONING TYPE OR
TO CONSIDER EXPLORING ZONING
TYPE FOR TEMPORARY TRANSITIONAL
OR TINY HOUSING WHICH IS A NEED
IN OUR COMMUNITY THAT HAS BEEN
EFFECTIVELY DENIED MY INABILITY
TO ACCESS THE AGENDA EITHER BY
DESIGN OR DEFICIT OR SOME OTHER
REASON I CANNOT SAY BUT THE
RESULT IS THE SAME THAT THERE
IS NOT EQUAL REPRESENTATION
HERE IN THE COMMUNITY AND FOR
THAT I&apos;M I&apos;M SORRY AND I HOPE
THAT IN MY LAST COUPLE
OF MONTHS HERE I CAN HAVE THAT
CHANGE BECAUSE I I WOULD REMIND
EVERYONE HERE THAT, YOU KNOW,
WE SERVE TO THE END OF OUR
TERMS AND I&apos;M HERE UNTIL THE
FIRST WEEK IN NOVEMBER.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA IN FAVOR POSED.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATION TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR NO
MATTER IN THE ABSENCE
OF INTRODUCTIONS WE NOW COME TO
PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME AND
RESERVE TIME AS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL OF THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT, RESERVE TIME
ONE NEED TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCES
WE&apos;LL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY
CLOSE ATTENTION AT A TIME OUR
CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS OUR REMAINING AND WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED AND THE
CLOCK HERE IN THE ROOM WILL DO
THE SAME IN EACH CASE WHEN YOUR
TIME IS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
EVELIN SMITH
.
&gt;&gt; HI EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS ELLEN SMITH.
I HAVE BEEN A RENTER AND
RESIDENT HERE IN ANN ARBOR FOR
THE PAST SIX YEARS.
I&apos;M HERE TODAY TO TALK ABOUT
THE RIGHT TO RENEW ORDINANCE
WHICH IS UP FOR A FIRST READING
AT TODAY&apos;S MEETING SEVERAL DAYS
AGO I WAS SPEAKING TO A ROOM
FULL OF RENTERS IN NO MAYBE TWO
HUNDRED OR SO PEOPLE AND I
ASKED THEM TO RAISE THEIR HANDS
IF THEY HAD EVER BEEN PRESSURED
BY THEIR LANDLORD TO RENEW
THEIR LEASE BEFORE THEY WERE
READY AND WHEN SHE KNEW IT, A
FULL THREE QUARTERS OF PEOPLE
IN THE ROOM RAISED THEIR HANDS.
IT SHOULDN&apos;T BE NEWS TO ANYONE
AT THIS POINT THAT THERE&apos;S A
MASSIVE POWER IMBALANCE BETWEEN
LANDLORDS AND RENTERS IN THE
CITY.
IT IS THE NORM FOR LANDLORDS TO
ASK RENTERS TO RENEW THEIR
LEASES BEFORE THEY HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO DISCOVER WHETHER
THEIR HEATING WORKS IN THE
WINTER OR WHETHER THEIR
LANDLORD IS RESPONSIVE TO
MAINTENANCE REQUESTS.
AND IF WE AS RENTERS TO RENEW
OUR LEASES ON OUR LANDLORDS
TIMELINE, OUR LANDLORDS
CONVENIENCE, WE RISK LOSING OUR
HOMES.
WE RISK THE EQUIVALENT
EQUIVALENT OF NO CAUSE EVICTION
RATES SO THE RIGHT TO RENEW
ORDINANCE THAT YOU&apos;LL BE
DISCUSSING TODAY GOES A LONG
WAY TOWARDS FIXING THIS PROBLEM
AND HELPS ENSURE THAT RENTERS
HAVE ADEQUATE TIME TO DISCOVER
TO MAKE AN INFORMED DECISION
ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT TO RENEW
THEIR LEASES.
AND I WANT TO EMPHASIZE THAT
THIS IS A THOROUGHLY CONSIDERED
PIECE OF LEGISLATION.
IT&apos;S BEEN ON YOUR DESK SINCE AT
LEAST MARCH.
IT&apos;S BEEN REVIEWED BY THE CITY
ATTORNEY, THE RENTERS
COMMISSION BY THE HEAD OF THE
HOUSING COMMISSION AND BY
WATCHING COUNTY PROSECUTOR
ELíSABET.
IT&apos;S ALSO BEEN ENDORSED BY THE
NATIONAL HOUSING ALLIANCE
HOUSING AND HUMAN SERVICES
ADVISORY BOARD AND BY SEVERAL
LABOR ORGANIZATIONS IN THE AREA
INCLUDING THE HURON VALLEY
LABOR FEDERATION AS WELL AS IN
LEO.
RIGHT.
AND SO ALL OF THOSE GROUPS
OF PEOPLE HAVE HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO COMMENT ON THIS
LANGUAGE TO PROVIDE FEEDBACK
AND FEEDBACK HAS BEEN
INCORPORATED AND ON TOP OF THAT
OVER SIX HUNDRED AND FIFTY
RENTERS HAVE SIGNED A PETITION
DEMANDING THAT THIS ORDINANCE
BE PASSED INTO LAW.
SO WHAT I&apos;M ASKING YOU TODAY IS
TO AND IN THE COMING WEEKS IS
TO PASS THIS ORDINANCE INTO LAW
RATES.
THE I WOULD LIKE TO HAPPEN
IDEALLY IS FOR THIS TO BE
PLACED ON THE NEXT CITY COUNCIL
AGENDA FOR A SECOND READING AND
FOR YOU ALL TO TAKE A VOTE.
THE SENSE OF URGENCY RENTERS
HAVE IN THIS ISSUE MIGHT SEEM
UNWARRANTED, BUT I DO WANT TO
POINT OUT THAT WHILE A MAJORITY
OF OUR CITY&apos;S RESIDENTS ARE
RENTERS, THERE&apos;S NOT A SINGLE
RENTER ON CITY COUNCIL TODAY.
RIGHT.
SO I&apos;M ASKING YOU TO SET ASIDE
YOUR OWN PERSONAL LEGISLATIVE
PRIORITIES AND TO TAKE ON THE
PERSPECTIVE OF THE CONSTITUENTS
THAT YOU REPRESENT.
RIGHT.
WE ARE STARING DOWN THE BARREL
OF ANOTHER YEAR WITHOUT WITH
PREDATORY WAITING LISTS,
NONREFUNDABLE POSITS ANOTHER
YEAR OF WATCHING YOUR FRIENDS
GET EVICTED AND FEARING
OURSELVES.
WE CAN&apos;T AFFORD TO WAIT ANY
LONGER THAT WE&apos;RE PAYING
ATTENTION SO NEITHER CAN YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ZACHARIAH
THURA.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS ZACHARIAH AND I&apos;M
THE CHAIR OF THE NEW RENTERS
COMMISSION.
I&apos;M HERE TO SPEAK ABOUT THE
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT SEE DASH
ONE KNOWN AS RIGHT TO RENEW
THIS PROPOSALS BEFORE YOU
BECAUSE MANY TENANTS IN OUR
CITY LIVE IN A STATE
OF CONSTANT INSTABILITY THEY
ARE NOT GUARANTEED THE
OPPORTUNITY TO RENEW THEIR
LEASES AND TO CONTINUE LIVING
IN THEIR OWN HOMES EVEN IF THEY
DO EVERYTHING RIGHT AND THEY
ARE THE BEST TENANTS THAT THEY
COULD POSSIBLY.
I&apos;VE SPOKEN WITH COUNTLESS
TENANTS WHO WANTED TO CONTINUE
LIVING IN THEIR HOMES BUT WERE
NOT OFFERED THE CHANCE TO DO SO
BY THE LANDLORD MOST LIKELY
BECAUSE THE UNIT HAD BEEN
LISTED FOR A HIGHER PRICE FOR
THE SUBSEQUENT TERM AND SOMEONE
HAD CONTACTED THE LANDLORD TO
TAKE THAT UNIT THIS PROPOSAL
GIVES LANDLORDS A CHOICE STOP
ARBITRARY NON DUAL OF LEASES OR
PAY RELOCATION ASSISTANCE TO
THE TENANT WHO IS BEING REMOVED
FROM THEIR HOME WITHOUT CAUSE A
PROCESS CAN BE VERY STRESSFUL
AND EXPENSIVE.
THIS IS A COMMON SENSE RULE AND
MANY PEOPLE I SPOKE WITH
THOUGHT THIS WAS ALREADY IN
PLACE IN FACT IT IS SUCH A
BASIC PROTECTION THAT THE
AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION HAS
ENDORSED THIS GENERAL POLICY
AND HAS STATED THAT EVERY CITY
IN AMERICA SHOULD HAVE A LAW
LIKE THIS ONE.
THIS ORDINANCE AMENDMENT FIRST
PROPOSED BY THE GRADUATE
EMPLOYEES ORGANIZATION IN JULY
OF TWENTY TWENTY ONE HAS
ANALYZED BY CITY ATTORNEYS HAS
BEEN DISCUSSED AND ENDORSED BY
BOTH THE RENTERS COMMISSION AND
THE HOUSING AND HUMAN SERVICES
ADVISORY BOARD.
IT HAS BEEN DISCUSSED ENDORSED
BY A LONG LIST OF COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE THE
WASHINGTON HOUSING ALLIANCE,
THE HUON VALLEY AREA LABOR
FEDERATION, THE U OF M CENTRAL
STUDENT GOVERNMENT, THE AND
OTHER TENANTS UNION AND THE
LIST GOES ON.
&gt;&gt; ADDITIONALLY, WE DID SEND
TWO COMMISSIONERS TO SPEAK WITH
THE WASHINGTON APARTMENT
ASSOCIATION TO HEAR THEIR
CONCERNS.
&gt;&gt; THE SITUATION FOR MANY AND
OUR TENANTS IS A DIRE AND
STRESSFUL ONE AND REFORMING OUR
LOCAL LAWS TO PREVENT ABUSES
AND EXPLOITATION IS THE
NECESSARY PATH FORWARD ONE THAT
WILL REQUIRE THIS COUNCIL TO
GIVE THESE ISSUES AN INCREASED
PRIORITY AFTER ALL.
&gt;&gt; FIFTY THREE PERCENT OF YOUR
CONSTITUENTS ARE RENTERS.
I URGE YOU TO NOT FEEL THEM AND
TO PASS RIGHT TO RENEW IT
CERTAINLY DOESN&apos;T FIX ALL THE
PROBLEMS FACING RENTERS BUT IT
IS A BOLD STEP FORWARD.
I&apos;M VERY GRATEFUL FOR THOSE
OF YOU WHO HAVE ENGAGED ON THIS
ISSUE AND FOR THE CITY
ATTORNEYS WHO HAVE DONE THE
WORK TO PROVIDE THE ANALYSIS
THAT YOU&apos;VE RECEIVED.
&gt;&gt; I LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING
THIS HOPEFULLY PAST BEGINNING
WITH THE PROCESS OF EDUCATION
ON THIS ISSUE AND FOR THOSE
OF YOU WHO DO HAVE QUESTIONS I
THERE&apos;S AN OPEN INVITATION TO
JUST EMAIL ME.
WE CAN SET UP A MEETING AND GO
LINE BY LINE EVERY SINGLE PART
OF THIS ORDINANCE AMENDMENT AND
EXPLAIN WHY IT&apos;S IN THERE AND
ADDRESS ALL CONCERNS AND
QUESTIONS YOU MIGHT HAVE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PULLA
.
&gt;&gt; HI.
MY NAME IS QUITE IMPOSSIBLE AND
I&apos;M A THIRD YEAR UNDERGRADUATE
STUDENT AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN DOUBLE MAJORING IN
P WHICH STANDS FOR A PHILOSOPHY
OF POLITICS AND ECONOMICS AND
ECONOMICS.
&gt;&gt; TODAY I&apos;M HERE REPRESENTING
A CENTRAL STUDENT GOVERNMENT AS
I AM THE SPEAKER OF THE CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT CSC POSSIBLY THE
REASON I&apos;M HERE TODAY IS TO
COMMUNICATE TO THE COUNCIL
ABOUT CSC STANDS ON
MEDITERRANEO SIX TWENTY TWO WE
PASSED A RESOLUTION TO FORMALLY
SUPPORT AN AMENDMENT TO THE
UPPER HOUSE TO EXTEND
PROTECTIONS FOR TENANTS AND THE
FORM OF A RIGHT TO DO AMENDMENT
.
THIS IS AN EXTENSION ON OUR
PREVIOUS ADVOCACY AND SUPPORT
TO THE FURTHER EARLY LEASING
ORDINANCE AS THIS WAS SUPPORTED
,VAST AMOUNT OF STUDENTS MADE
A MEANINGFUL IMPACT ON THEIR
LIVES INCLUDING MINE ESPECIALLY
AS RENTERS.
HOWEVER, THE PROBLEMS WITH THE
WAS NOT ENOUGH AND WE NEED MORE
PROTECTIONS AS RENTERS I MYSELF
IN ANN ARBOR AND MY EXPERIENCE
WITH MY LANDLORD HAS BEEN FAR
FROM OPTIMAL.
I COULD EASILY GO ON AND ON
ABOUT THE NEGATIVE EXPERIENCES
I&apos;VE HAD WITH MY LANDLORD.
BUT MANY PEOPLE HAVE COME HERE
BEFORE THIS COUNCIL AND TOLD
THE STORIES.
I&apos;M HERE TO EMPHASIZE ONCE
AGAIN HOW CSG YOUR CONSTITUENTS
REPRESENTING THE STUDENT BODY
ARE IN FAVOR OF THIS AMENDMENT
.
A LOT OF STUDENTS HAVE HAD
EXPERIENCE LIKE HAVING TO SIGN
UP FOR RESERVATIONIST AND
SOMETIMES COMPREHENDIBLE
DEPOSITS.
I MEAN THIS IS ABSOLUTELY
ABSURD AND THAT&apos;S WHY CSG IS
STANDING UP FOR RENTERS RIGHT
NOW THAT ARE RENTERS HAVE
MINIMAL POWER AND A LOT
OF LANDLORDS ACROSS NO USE
WHATEVER LOOPHOLES THAT THEY
CAN USE TO QUESTIONS LIKE ME TO
RENEW EARLY OR USE WAIT US OR
OTHER METHODS THAT SHOULD NOT
BE ALLOWED TO FORCE RENTERS TO
MAKE A DECISION EARLIER ABOUT
RENEWAL.
OBVIOUSLY IT SHOULD BE NOTED
THAT VETERAN ISN&apos;T SOME SORT
OF RADICAL POLICY.
THIS IS PART OF HOUSING COURTS
ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
THAT&apos;S AN ORDINANCE THAT EVEN
THE AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION
ENDORSES.
I MEAN THIS SHOULD BE
CONSIDERED A BASIC PROTECTION
FOR RENTERS BECAUSE NOT HAVING
THE RIGHT TO A NEW IS ON PAR
WITH EVICTION AND WE DON&apos;T HAVE
THAT PROTECTION RIGHT NOW.
RENTERS WHO HAVE DONE NOTHING
WRONG SHOULD HAVE SHOULD BE
AFFORDED THE RIGHT TO RENEW
THEIR LEASE DURING APPROPRIATE
TIME INSTEAD OF OCTOBER BEFORE
OF YOU MOVE IN WHEN YOU&apos;RE
LIVING WITH YOUR ROOMMATES FOR
THE FIRST TIME IN AN APARTMENT
FOR THE FIRST TIME AND THAT&apos;S
THE PERSON YOU WANT TO RENEW.
BUT LEONARD HAS FOUND SOMEBODY
THAT WILL PAY MORE THAN YOU AND
NOW YOU HAVE TO FIND A NEW
PLACE TO LIVE.
MOVING ISN&apos;T AN EXPERIENCE
WITHOUT TRANSACTION COSTS.
IT COSTS A LOT OF MONEY YOU
DON&apos;T WANT.
YOU&apos;RE MOVING WITHIN THE SAME
CITY.
YOU PROBABLY HAVE TO TAKE TIME
OFF WORK, POSSIBLY EVEN PAY FOR
MOVING SERVICES IF YOU&apos;RE
DISABLED AND MOVE YOUR
DIFFERENT BELONGINGS TO YOUR
NEW PLACE AND WE JUST SKIP OVER
THE FACT WHERE WE ASSUME THAT
THIS PERSON JUST FOUND ANOTHER
PLACE TO LIVE THAT EASILY
WITHOUT TAKING TIME OFF WORK OR
ANYTHING ELSE TO GO APARTMENT
HUNTING MIGHT SAY WHAT IF THIS
TENANT CONSISTENTLY TRASHED THE
UNIT OR GOT BAD TENANTS?
WELL THAT IS MY WRITING RIGHT
TO RENEW ALLOWS FOR JUST CAUSE
EVICTIONS.
A TENANT VIOLATED LEASES.
THE LANDLORD WILL HAVE THE
ABILITY TO NOT OFFER THEM
ANNUAL TERMS.
IF YOU&apos;RE A GOOD TENANT THEN
THE LANGUAGE AND NOT HAVE A
GOOD REASON TO EVICT YOU THEN
THAT&apos;S WHY IT&apos;S IMPERATIVE THAT
RELOCATION ASSISTANCE IS PART
OF THIS ORDINANCE AND ALL I&apos;M
HERE TO SHOW YOU THAT KESHI
REPRESENTING THE STUDENT BODY
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
IN ANN ARBOR CAMPUS RENTERS AND
FAMILY SUPPORTS INCLUSION
OF THE VETERAN ORDINANCE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRANDON
JEFF.
&gt;&gt; UH, EXCUSE HELLO.
MY NAME IS BRANDON.
I LIVE IN THE FOURTH GRADE.
I AM EXCITED TO SEE COUNCIL
ENTERTAIN THE IDEA
OF PROHIBITING TURNS RED
DOWNTOWN.
I KNOW SEVERAL FOLKS WHO HAVE
BEEN HIT BY A CAR DRIVER WAS
LOOKING THE OPPOSITE DIRECTION
WITHOUT ATTEMPTING TO TURN RED
.
THE BUSY INTERSECTION HAVE ALSO
HAD A FEW CLOSE CALLS MYSELF.
ONE ALMOST HAPPENED OUT HERE
JUST A MINUTE AGO.
I WAS SO I UNDERSTAND THAT THIS
MIGHT BE POSTPONED UNTIL WE CAN
FIGURE OUT WHAT TO DO ABOUT
ROADS.
SO I ALSO ASK THAT YOU PASS
EIGHT SO MAYBE ONE DAY WE CAN
CONTROL OUR OWN DESTINY HERE
LIKE ANY DECISION THE PROS AND
CONS TO MAKING THIS CHANGE BUT
IT&apos;S VERY CLEAR TO ME THAT THE
BENEFITS OUTWEIGH THE DRAWBACKS
IN THE TEXT OF THE RESOLUTION
IT IS NOTED THAT NINETY
PEDESTRIAN INJURY CRASHES
OCCURRED IN THIS AREA FROM
TWENTY SEVENTEEN TO TWENTY
TWENTY ONE.
THIS CERTAINLY WON&apos;T ELIMINATE
ALL THOSE CRASHES BUT EVEN
REDUCING IT BY A FEW IS MORE
THAN WORTH MINOR DELAYS DUE TO
DRIVERS HAVING TO WAIT FOR A
LIGHT TO TURN GREEN IN ORDER TO
COMPLETE THEIR TURN.
I DO HAVE TO REQUEST THOUGH I
NOTICE DIDN&apos;T INCLUDE CAMPUS IN
IN THE AREA
AND PEDESTRIAN
TRAFFIC IS GOT TO BE AT LEAST
AS HIGH THERE AS IT IS DOWNTOWN
AND I IMAGINE THAT THE
ARGUMENTS FOR WHY IT&apos;S
DANGEROUS TO TRY TO RIGHT
DOWNTOWN ALSO APPLY TO SOUTH
THE UNIVERSITY AND REALLY ALL
THE AREA BETWEEN HERE AND
WASHINGTON.
SO I WAS CURIOUS WHY THAT
WASN&apos;T INCLUDED.
YEAH, AND I ALSO OBSERVED POOR
COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING
DOWNTOWN PARTICULARLY ACROSS
THE BIKEWAYS.
I&apos;VE HAD A COUPLE OF CLOSE
CALLS THIS SUMMER ON MY BIKE
WHEN DRIVERS HAVE ILLEGALLY
TURNED ON RIGHT IN FRONT OF MY
PATH HAD TO SLAM ON THE BRAKES
AND I HAVE A NICE BIKE AND I
HAVE USED MORE THAN I REALLY
WANT TO.
THE SIGNS ARE OFTEN ONLY POSTED
THE RIGHT SIDE OF THE
INTERSECTION LIKE AT THE STOP
SIGN AND NOT LIKE UP ON LIGHTS
AND STUFF.
SO I&apos;M SURE SOME DRIVERS DON&apos;T
CARE BUT I THINK A LOT
OF PEOPLE PROBABLY DON&apos;T SEE
THOSE SIGNS AND YOU KNOW, BIKE
LANES ARE RELATIVELY NEW AND
THEY DON&apos;T REALLY KNOW THEY
SHOULDN&apos;T BE DOING THAT.
SO YOU KNOW, IF WE DO THIS
POLICY AND WE&apos;RE GOING TO TRY
TO CONSISTENTLY DO IT
EVERYWHERE, I THINK IT&apos;S REALLY
GOING TO BE IMPORTANT FOR US TO
LIKE MAKE IT REALLY CLEAR THAT
PEOPLE SHOULD NOT BE TURNING ON
RED.
YEAH.
THANK YOU FOR LISTENING AND
TRYING TO MAKE IT SAFER FOR ALL
USERS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DANIELLE
WHITE.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
YOU CAN GO AHEAD.
MY COUNSEL DANIELLE WHITE AND I
LIVE AT THE IN THE 500 BLOCK
OF SIREN CHURCH ROAD IN THE
FOURTH WARD.
I&apos;M SPEAKING THIS EVENING IN
SUPPORT OF CASES CITY STAFF&apos;S
DECISION TO REMOVE ON SITE
PARKING ON DIVISION BETWEEN
HOOVER AND PACKARD ROAD.
HAD YOU TRAVELED THIS BIKE LANE
WITH ME TODAY FROM HOOVER TO
PACKARD YOU WOULD HAVE
ENCOUNTERED MANY OBSTACLES AND
HAZARDS LIKE TRASH AND
RECYCLING CANS WALKY THE
PAINTED BELTWAY OR THE LEAGUE
AMAZON DELIVERY TRUCK FORCING
YOU TO ENTER THE CAR TRAFFIC
YOURSELF AND OTHERS AT RISK
OF INJURY WHEN WE COUNCIL
RECEIVED AN APPROVED ITS
TRANSPORTATION PLAN ENDORSED
THE PLANS GOALS OF MAKING OUR
STREETS SAFER BY REDUCING
SPEEDS IN THE HOPE
OF DECREASING INJURIES AND
DEATHS AND BY OPENING OUR
STREETS TO MORE USERS, USERS
AND USES THAN JUST CAR
TRANSPORT AND STORAGE AND MORE
ACTION.
A PROVEN CASE TODAY MOVES US
ONE STEP CLOSER TO THIS GOAL
FURTHER MORE THE CITY IS ABLE
TO EXPAND PROTECTED BIKE
INFRASTRUCTURE THE ROAD TRIPS
THAT I AND OTHERS CAN MAKE BY
OUR BIKES THUS REDUCING OUR
VEHICLE MILES.
BUT PLEASE DON&apos;T STOP WITH THE
REMOVAL OF THIS ON STREET
PARKING.
WOULD YOU ALSO CONSIDER
REMOVING ON STREET PARKING ON
THE SEVEN ON S7 WHEN THE CITY
UPDATES ITS WATER KNEE AND
REPAVED THAT ROUTE AS A PARENT
WHO BIKES DAILY TO SCHOOL WITH
MY CHILDREN HAVING A PROTECTED
BY THE WAY INCREASES OUR SAFETY
ESPECIALLY WHEN WE HAVE TO
DODGE DISTRACTED DRIVERS WHO
ARE EITHER SPEEDING THROUGH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OR ARE USING THEIR
PHONES AND ARE NOT FOCUSED ON
THE TASK OF DRIVING SAFELY.
SO I IN THE U.S. WE SUPPORT
THIS PROJECT AND I&apos;M ASKING YOU
TO SUPPORT IT AND EXPAND
PROTECTED BIKE LANES IN ANN
ARBOR.
LET&apos;S DO MORE THAN JUST FIVE
MILES PER YEAR.
LET&apos;S TRY TO DOUBLE IT TO TEN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RICHARD
CALLER WITH A CALLER WITH THE
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN 467000
ME.
&gt;&gt; YES, WE CAN PLAY THAT
EVENING JUST FINE.
I LIVE IN WARD ONE.
MY COMMENT IS RELATED TO AGENDA
ITEM ONE WHICH IS THE ANNUAL
MEETING OF ARE GOING TO BE WHAT
I HAVE SAID A FEW TIMES BEFORE
.
I BELIEVE IT BEARS REPEATING
WHAT I SAID AND ONLY AND I
WOULD BE DEMANDING IT FOR THE
CITY TO KIND OF LISTEN MORE
CLOSELY TO WHAT I REQUIRE.
THERE SHOULD BE NO DOUBT THAT
THE THINGS THAT THEN IN YOUR
MIND ARE THERE TO SUPPORT AND
DISCONTINUE THE POWER DYNAMIC
THAT GET INTO THAT GOES IN ANN
ARBOR IF IT IS BEING IT IS
USUALLY UNFORTUNATE AND EVIL
THAT THERE IS NO DEBATE IN
LIGHT OF THE FACT THAT THE
TIMELINE THAT WE ARE PROPOSING
HERE, WHICH IS WHERE IN THE 70S
A LOT OF LANDLORDS ARE STILL
ASKING THAT I PAY AND I GO TO
BE CLOSER TO ONE FROM THE END
OF THE YOU KNOW, I DON&apos;T EVEN
HAVE TO HOOT EVEN IF YOU
THOUGHT IT WAS IN THE BENEFIT
OF HINDSIGHT THAT WE SHOULD
HAVE PEOPLE OR THINGS LIKE THAT
IN ADDITION, I KNEW THAT THERE
WAS A LOT OF WORK TO DO WITH
THE YOU KNOW, NO ARBITRARILY
DECIDES NOT TO GO TO THE
SEEKING MORE THAN THAT.
BUT I DO THAT I SAID BECAUSE I
NEVER WOULD HAVE BEEN INITIATED
AND I&apos;VE ALREADY SPOKEN TO PAUL
ABOUT THAT IF ANYTHING
UNEXPECTEDLY THAT MORE OTHER
THAN THAT BASED ON WHAT WE KNOW
THE BUILDING IS EXTENSIVE AND
THEY OUR OWN LIFE IS IN A WAY
FIREMEN ARE NOT QUALIFIED.
BUT IF YOU ARE GIVING THE
LANDLORD THAT INFORMATION SAY
THAT IT WAS A PLACE
OF UNDESIRABILITY FOR YOU TO I
AND THINK THAT IS ANOTHER THAT
I&apos;M GOING TO KEEP THAT IN HUMAN
CENTRIC UNDERSTANDING EMPATHIZE
WITH ONE ANOTHER.
WE DON&apos;T KNOW THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS LISTEN TO US AND
OBVIOUSLY THAT SHOULD BE ONE
COMPONENT AND THEN EVENTUALLY
THE TO THE KIND OF PROPOSALS
THAT I&apos;M ALREADY MONGUL AND
OPEN AND FILLED WITH THE PUBLIC
COMMENTS ABOUT THE
IMPLEMENTATION WITH THE OTHER
VARIOUS CONCERNS ABOUT THE BUT
MOVE THINGS LIKE YOU KEEPING
THAT IN MIND THE DEPARTMENT HAS
A LOT OF SUPPORT AND THEN WHEN
YOU MAKE A DECISION FOR PEOPLE
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MICHELLE
HUSE
.
MICHELLE, DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT
SO I AM HOPING THAT THE CITY
COUNCIL TODAY WILL RETAIN THE
EXISTING POLICY OF REQUIRING
THAT ALL CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS
REGARDLESS OF THE WASHTENAW NOT
HOW TO USE THAT LEVEL.
IT&apos;S SO I JUST WASHTENAW
COUNTY&apos;S CASE NUMBERS AND SO
FORTH.
LAST YEAR THIS TIME THERE WERE
150 CASES THIS THIS WEEK LAST
YEAR IN WASHTENAW COUNTY
OF COVID AND THIS YEAR THERE
ARE EIGHT HUNDRED AND FORTY
CASES THIS WEEK SO THAT&apos;S
ALMOST DOUBLE DOUBLE KSW SEEING
LAST YEAR AND IN ADMISSIONS
HOSPITAL ADMISSIONS THAT THIS
WEEK THIS YEAR WE&apos;RE SEEING
THIRTY THREE THIS WEEK LAST
YEAR WE HAD NINETEEN SO AGAIN
THAT&apos;S ALMOST DOUBLE WHAT WE
SAW LAST YEAR AT THIS TIME THIS
WEEK AND LAST YEAR THERE WAS
ONE DEATH IN THIS WEEK AND THIS
YEAR THERE WERE FIVE DEATHS
FROM COVID THIS WEEK ALSO YOU
CAN SEE IT SO YOU CAN SEE THAT
BECAUSE IT HASN&apos;T BEEN BETTER
WE HAVE BEEN SEEING GOOD PUBLIC
PUBLIC HEALTH OUTCOMES AND IN
CASES HAVE BEEN GOING UP,
CLINICIANS HAVE BEEN GOING UP
AND THAT&apos;S BEEN GOING UP SINCE
LAST YEAR AND SO THIS SEEMS
LIKE A BAD TIME TO REMOVE MASK
MANDATES AND I UNDERSTAND THE
COUNTY, THE STATE AND THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HAVE DONE
THIS BUT THE CITY DOESN&apos;T HAVE
TO DO IT.
THERE ARE MANY CASES WHERE THE
CITY ALREADY CHOOSES TO PROTECT
ITS CITIZENS MORE TO A GREATER
DEGREE THAN THE CITY, STATE OR
COUNTY GOVERNMENTS REQUIRE.
FOR EXAMPLE, THE CITY HAS A FAR
RANGING NON DISCRIMINATION
ORDINANCE THAT GOES ABOVE AND
BEYOND WHAT IS REQUIRED AT THE
FEDERAL CITY OR STATE.
THE FEDERAL STATE COUNTY
ORDINANCES THAT PROTECTS LGBT
PEOPLE FOR EXAMPLE AND IT
PROTECTS PEOPLE FROM
DISCRIMINATION BASED ON THEIR
HAIRSTYLE FREE TO THEIR YOU
KNOW, DUE TO RACISM AND THERE
IS ONLY THE CITY COULD CHOOSE
TO PROTECT PEOPLE HERE WE THAT
WE KNOW THAT THERE ARE UNEQUAL
HEALTH HEALTH ACCESS ISSUES
THAT MAKE THEM MAKE PEOPLE MORE
SUSCEPTIBLE
.
AND IF WE IF WE STOP PROVIDING
MASKS THEN WE&apos;RE RATIFYING AND
MOVING IT OUT TO GOVERNMENT
ACCESS ISSUES.
AND I KNOW THAT WE STILL HAVE
THE CLUBBABLE, THE COLLEGE BUT
SOME PEOPLE HAVE ACCESS TO THE
PERSON AND SOME PEOPLE WANT IF
WE REMOVE MASKS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THEIR
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
COUNCIL ON BRITISH.
THANK YOU.
I WOULD LIKE TO URGE EVERYONE
BUT ESPECIALLY RESIDENTS
OF WARDS ONE IN FIVE TO
PARTICIPATE IN AMDOCS VIRTUAL
PUBLIC MEETING ON THE BERTEN
DRIVE AND 14 INTERCHANGE.
THIS AREA IS A KNOWN TROUBLE
SPOT FOR TRUCK CRASHES
INCLUDING LAST YEAR&apos;S FATAL
CRASH WHICH SPILLED SOMEWHERE
AROUND 100 GALLONS OR MORE
OF DIESEL FUEL INTO THE HURON
RIVER.
SO NOT WAS PERSUADED
STRONGARMED I DON&apos;T KNOW
EXCELLENT INDUCED TO COMPLETE A
STUDY AND PROPOSE FOR OPTIONS.
SO THE FOUR OPTIONS ARE ONE DO
NOTHING TO CLOSE THE EASTBOUND
EXIT.
THREE CREATE A LARGER EXIT LOOP
FOR THE EASTBOUND EXIT THAT
WOULD EXTEND IT FURTHER INTO
THE LAND ON THE ANN HARBOR SIDE
OF THE EXIT AND FOR CLOSE THE
CURRENT ENTRANCE AND EXIT RAMPS
AND RELOCATE THEM FURTHER NORTH
OF THE EXISTING ONES AND
REDISTRIBUTE SOME OF THE
INFRASTRUCTURE ONTO WHITMORE
LAKE ROAD.
THEY CALL THIS A DOGBONE.
&gt;&gt; DON&apos;T ASK ME.
YOU CAN FIND THIS VIRTUAL
PUBLIC MEETING AT N14 HYPHEN
BARTON PAL THAT&apos;S BARTON P L
ALL ONE WORD DOT COM YOU CAN
ALSO FIND OUT INFORMATION FROM
THIS IF YOU JUST PROBABLY
GOOGLE BAAT M DOT BARTON DRIVE
OR YOU CAN WRITE AN EMAIL TO ME
AND I&apos;LL SEND YOU THE LINKS YOU
NEED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU COUNCILMAN
GRISWOLD.
YES I WAS IN NEW YORK CITY LAST
WEEKEND AND I WANT TO REPORT
THAT ANN ARBOR HAS MUCH BETTER
ADA AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES
ACT INFRASTRUCTURE THAN
MANHATTAN DOES.
I IS SURPRISED BY THAT BUT
THAT&apos;S THE WAY IT WAS.
NO TOO.
I HAD MENTIONED BRINGING
FORWARD A RESOLUTION ASKING
THAT ALL DARK SCHOOL CROSSWALKS
AND CROSSWALKS AND SCHOOL WORK
ZONES BE ILLUMINATED AND ASK
STAFF TO FIND OUT WHAT THAT
DOLLAR AMOUNT WAS.
HOWEVER, AND DOING SOME
RESEARCH WE ALREADY ASKED STAFF
TO DO THIS.
IT WAS CALLED THE TIER ONE, TWO
AND THREE STUDY THAT WAS DONE
AFTER A STUDENT WAS FATALLY
FATALLY INJURED IN A CROSSWALK
NEAR HURON HIGH SCHOOL.
AND SO THE THREE BOARDS IN
FRONT OF YOU YOU CAN&apos;T READ BUT
IT SHOWS THE VOLUME
OF INFORMATION THAT WAS
COLLECTED AND THE PLANS THAT
WERE IN PLACE.
SO I HOPE THAT WE CAN CONTINUE
THAT PROJECT THAT WAS ALREADY
APPROVED BY COUNCIL.
LASTLY, MOST OF YOU ALREADY
KNOW THAT THE MICHIGAN COURT
OF APPEALS VACATED THE JUNE
TWENTY TWENTY ONE COURT ORDER
REGARDING THE GOVERNMENT PLUME
AND I JUST WANT TO READ BRIEFLY
FROM CONGRESSWOMAN DEBBIE
DINGELL&apos;S PRESS RELEASE.
SHE&apos;S CREDITED WITH LEADING THE
EFFORT FOR GETTING EPA CLEAN UP
AND SHE SAYS THAT THE ORIGINAL
ORDER THAT WOULD FORCE
GOVERNMENT TO ENACT URGENT
SUBSTANTIVE CLEANUP MEASURES
WILL PUT HUMAN HEALTH AND OUR
WATER AT RISK THAT THE RESULT
OF VACATING THAT ORDER FOR
DECADES GILMAN HAS ATTEMPTED TO
STALL AND DEFLECT WHILE THE
PLUME SPREADS AND THREATENS OUR
WATER AND ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH.
IT WAS CLEAR ALREADY AND EVEN
CLEARER NOW THAT WE MUST ACT
URGENTLY TO DESIGNATE THIS SUN
THIS SITE AS AN EPA SUPERFUND
SITE SO THAT WE CAN FINALLY
CLEAN UP THIS SITE AND BEGIN TO
IN THIS NIGHTMARE FOR FAMILIES
LIVING IN THIS AREA.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK THIS IS A PRETTY
STRONG STATEMENT COUNCIL NELSON
,THANK YOU.
A FEW THINGS GOING ON AN AWARD
FOR FIRST OF ALL FOR A NUMBER
OF MONTHS NOW WE&apos;VE BEEN
FIELDING QUESTIONS FROM
RESIDENTS WONDERING WHEN WE
WERE GOING TO START WORK ON THE
WESTERN AND OHIO CHURCH ROAD
AND THE CITY ANNOUNCED THIS
WEEK THAT THAT PROJECT HAS BEEN
POSTPONED TO TWENTY TWENTY
THREE.
THE CITY PROJECT PAGE FOR THAT
PROJECT ON THE CITY&apos;S WEBSITE
HAS INFORMATION.
I HAVE INFORMATION ON MY
WEBSITE IF YOU&apos;RE INTERESTED.
THERE ARE ALSO A COUPLE
OF PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT MEETINGS.
THERE IS A PROPOSAL TO COMBINE
THE PARCELS OF THE BLOCKS
SURROUNDED BY SOUTH ST. HENRY
WHITE AND STIMPSON STREETS.
THE PROPERTY OWNER IS ASKING
FOR A RESOUNDING AND THERE&apos;S A
REQUIRED PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
MEETING THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE THIS
WEDNESDAY FROM SIX THIRTY TO
EIGHT AT NINETEEN NINETEEN S
INDUSTRIAL HIGHWAY.
THAT&apos;S THE OLD LUCKIES GROCERY
STORE.
THERE&apos;S ANOTHER MEETING AROUND
THE STATE HILL IMPROVEMENT
PROJECT THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER TWENTY
SEVENTH.
THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE A ZOO
MEETING LED BY THE CITY.
BOTH OF THESE ARE THERE&apos;S
INFORMATION ON MY WEBSITE AT
YOU ALL NOW DOT COM YOU CAN
SEARCH FOR THEM AT THE CITY
SITE AS WELL.
I THINK THAT&apos;S IT.
THANKS, COUNCILOR HAYNER.
THANKS.
JUST BRIEFLY, I HAD THE
PLEASURE OF ATTENDING THREE
DIFFERENT EVENTS THIS WEEKEND
AND IT WAS KIND OF INTERESTING
THEY&apos;RE ALL KIND OF SIMILAR IN
A WAY.
THEY HAD A FORTY YEAR
ANNIVERSARY OF SEEING ANDREW&apos;S
BREAKFAST EVERY DAY FOR
ESSENTIALLY FOR THE LAST 40
YEARS THEY&apos;VE BEEN PROVIDING
FREE BREAKFAST TO ANYBODY WHO
NEEDS IT OVER THERE, WHICH IS
PRETTY REMARKABLE WHEN YOU
THINK ABOUT AND THEN IT WAS
ALSO THE SECOND YEAR
ANNIVERSARY OF THE ANTHEIL
FIRST AND SUNDAY WAS A
SUCCESSFUL SORT OF EVENT ON THE
DIAG WE HAD A COUPLE HOURS
WORTH OF SPEAKERS, A LOT OF A
LOT OF OLD KIND GENUINE FREE
SPEECH AND TRUTHFULNESS WAS WAS
TO BE FOUND HERE WHICH IS
ALWAYS A GOOD THING AND ALSO A
LOT OF POLITICAL ACTION.
AND WE ALSO HAD A SERIES
OF SUCCESSFUL WORK SESSIONS AND
WE&apos;RE GETTING REALLY CLOSE OUT
THE WHAT WOULD BE THE THIRD
YEAR NOW AT THE FOOD FORCED UP
ON THE NORTH SIDE FOOD FOR US,
PERMANENT FOOD US AND ALL THESE
PROJECTS ARE PRETTY REMARKABLE
IN THAT THEY HAVE SIX SEEDED
WITH LITTLE HELP FROM
GOVERNMENT AND SOMETIMES IN
SPITE OF HELP FROM GOVERNMENT
AND SO IT&apos;S PRETTY REMARKABLE
TO SHOW WHAT PEOPLE CAN DO IN
THE COMMUNITY ON THEIR OWN WHEN
THEY GET TOGETHER THEY SEE A
GOOD CAUSE AND THEY WANT TO
THEY WANT TO ACT ON THAT.
AND SO I WAS HAPPY TO BE PART
OF THOSE THREE THINGS AND IT
JUST GIVES ME HOPE FOR THE
FUTURE OF ANN ARBOR.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
KOTSENBURG SONG.
THERE WAS AN EVENT AYUMU THIS
WEEKEND ON A DISCUSSION ON RACE
HOSTED BY SURVIVOR SPEAK.
A NUMBER OF COMMUNITY GROUPS
CAME TOGETHER FOR US.
ONE OF THE OUTCOMES OH SOME
OF THE SPEAKERS INCLUDED TIM
WISE AND OUR ASSISTANT COUNTY
PROSECUTOR ONE OF THE ONE
OF THE REMINDERS THAT
ORGANIZERS HAD PUT OUT THAT DAY
WAS TO TAKE A LOOK, BE ON THE
LOOKOUT FOR A SURVEY THAT&apos;S
GOING OUT TO ALL PUBLIC
OFFICIALS.
I THINK IT&apos;S CALLED OPERATION
ACCOUNTABILITY AND IT&apos;S ASKING
US TO ACCOUNT TO WHAT OUR
EFFORTS AS AS WE&apos;RE IN OFFICE
IN SUPPORT OF DIVERSITY, EQUITY
AND INCLUSION.
SO HOPEFULLY IF WE&apos;RE AWARE
OF THIS WE CAN ALL BE
RESPONSIVE BECAUSE I THINK
THERE WAS A STRUGGLE AS TO WHO
HAD RESPONDED IN TIME WHEN
THERE WAS A TIME WHEN THERE WAS
AN EARLIER EFFORT EARLIER THIS
SPRING.
&gt;&gt; SO I ENCOURAGE EVERYONE TO
PARTICIPATE FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL.
I&apos;D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS THAT WERE
PRESENTED TO COUNCIL DECEMBER
SIX TWENTY TWENTY REGULAR
SESSION TO THE DESIGN REVIEW
BOARD WENDY RABSON TO THE
ENERGY COMMISSION GABRIEL HART
THE MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG SECONDED
BY COUNCILOR FOR OUR DISCUSSION
IN FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED.
I&apos;D ALSO LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION AT THE DOWNTOWN
AREA CITIZEN&apos;S ADVISORY COUNCIL
ANGELA FRANCIS SPEECH TO THE
ENERGY COMMISSION MIKE
PERKOWITZ WE NOW HAVE A FOREST
CONSENT AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; MOVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE CONSENT AGENDA MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER GRISWOLD
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER GRANT
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA COUNCIL MEMBER GRISWOLD
I&apos;D LIKE TO REMOVE SEET SIX AND
EIGHT COUNCIL MEMBER DISH I&apos;D
LIKE TO SAY SOMETHING NICE
ABOUT C11 WHICH MEANS I THINK I
HAVE TO REMOVE IT RIGHT NOW.
YOU CAN SAY SOMETHING NICE AT
ANY TIME.
EXCELLENT.
THEN I&apos;D JUST LIKE TO SAY THAT
I&apos;M VERY HAPPY TO SEE THIS AND
VERY GRATEFUL TO OUR STAFF FOR
APPLYING FOR A FIFTY FOUR
THOUSAND DOLLAR GRANT FROM
EAGLE.
THIS GRANT WILL PROVIDE
CURBSIDE EV CHARGING FOR
RESIDENTS IN MULTIUNIT
DWELLINGS WHO DO NOT HAVE A
GARAGE OR OTHERWISE DEDICATED
PARKING SPOT AND IT WILL WORK
BY LOCATING THE CHARGER ON DTG
OWNED UTILITY POLES.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A PILOT GRANT AND IT
WILL SUPPORT THREE CHARGERS IN
TWO WARD ONE LOCATION EAST
KINGSLEE IN NORTH ENGL STREETS.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCILOR BRENNER,
YOUR THANKS FOR COMING
SEEHOFER.
WE HAVE A RESOLUTION THERE TO
TO DRILL SOME SENTINEL
MONITORING WELLS FOR THE GALMAN
MATTER AT HAPPY TO SEE THAT IN
FRONT OF US IT&apos;S A REASONABLE
YOU OR SOMEWHAT REASONABLE COST
FOR THIS AND AS WE&apos;VE ALREADY
SEEN FROM OUR TOWNSHIPS WORK
THEY ARE THEY ARE NEEDED AND
YOU KNOW I AM SORRY TO SAY AND
THEN SEE A13 AND KEEPON THE
ELECTRIC VEHICLE THING THE
CLOSED READERS WILL NOTE THAT
OH THE SIX HUNDRED AND
SOMETIMES THOUSAND DOLLARS NEW
VEHICLE PURCHASES THAT REALLY
THE MAJORITY OF IT WE HAVE
ABOUT FIVE OR SIX OF IT IS
GOING TO ELECTRIC VEHICLES SO
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S MOVING FORWARD
WITH OUR GREEN FLEETS PROGRAM
WHICH IS NICE TO SEE.
HOPEFULLY THOSE WILL WORK OUT
FOR THEN K FIFTEEN IS UNUSUAL
ONLY IN ITS LOCATION BECAUSE
IT&apos;S A RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WHICH
TYPICALLY COMES BEFORE US AS
PART OF A WORD TYPICALLY USED
TO COME BEFORE US TYPICALLY AS
PART OF THE YOU KNOW, GENERAL
DISCUSSION AROUND A PROJECT.
BUT IN THIS CASE
WE&apos;RE SEEING
WHAT&apos;S YOU KNOW, CONTINUING THE
TREND OF WHAT YOU KNOW, SORT
OF REPLACING OPEN AND SOMETIMES
ADVERSARIAL DISCUSSIONS AND
BACK AND FORTH WITH DEVELOPERS
ABOUT THE VARIOUS MERITS OR
LACK THEREOF OF THEIR PROJECTS
HERE.
THE TABLE EVEN IF THEY WERE BI
RIGHT WITH SORT OF JUST LETTING
THEM SLIDE THROUGH WITH
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
AND THAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S HAPPENED HERE
TO A DEVELOPMENT OF A SITE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT IS JUST
ON A CONSENT AGENDA.
JUST GO AHEAD AND CONSENT TO
THAT EVERYBODY.
I JUST I JUST THINK THAT
IT&apos;S NOT A GOOD TREND IN MY
OPINION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
THE CONSENT AGENDA.
CASPER GRAND, THANKS.
I JUST THINK IN AND SAY FIFTEEN
AS WELL SINCE IT&apos;S IN OUR WARD
I&apos;VE BEEN IN CONTACT WITH THE
WITH THE DEVELOPER FOR QUITE
SOME TIME IN ADDITION TO GOING
THROUGH THE PLANNING PROCESS
THEY DID PRETTY EXTENSIVE
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT.
I DIDN&apos;T REALLY FIND A LOT
OF OPPOSITION TO THE PROJECT
BUT REACHED OUT CERTAINLY I
THINK MORE THAN YOU WOULD EVEN
NORMALLY SEE SO EXCITED TO
EVENTUALLY WELCOME THESE
NEIGHBORS TO THE THIRD WARD.
&gt;&gt; THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
ALL IN FAVOR OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF CSKA PCI POST THE CONSENT
AGENDA WITH THE EXCEPTION OF 06
AND 08 IS APPROVED THUS
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO C11
SEET FOURTEEN CSX RESOLUTION TO
REMOVE PARKING ON DIVISION
STREET BETWEEN HOOVER STREET
AND PARKER STREET MOVE BY
COUNCILOR GRISWOLD BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DIS DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF SIX COUNCIL FOR GRISWOLD.
I&apos;M GOING TO APPROVE THIS BUT I
JUST WANT TO RAISE SOME
CONCERNS THAT I THINK STAFF
SHOULD BE AWARE OF .
ONE IS THE NUMBER OF DRIVEWAYS
THAT ARE ON DIVISION AND SO
WHEN PUTTING IN THIS TWO WAY
BIKE WAY WE NEED TO MAKE SURE
THAT THERE IS MAXIMUM VISIBLE
TO ALL OF THE DRIVEWAYS AND BY
REMOVING THOSE CARS THAT IS
GOING TO HELP.
BUT BUT THERE&apos;S ALSO ISSUES
WITH OVERGROWN VEGETATION
THERE.
I ALSO THINK THAT WE NEED TO
LOOK AT ALL OF THESE PROJECTS
FROM AN EQUITY STANDPOINT.
THIS IS A LOWER PRICED RENTAL
HOUSING FOR STUDENTS AND I KNOW
SOME STUDENTS NEED A CAR
BECAUSE THEY END UP DOING
EITHER LYFT, UBER OR DELIVERING
FOOD PRODUCTS.
AND SO I HOPE THAT WHEN WE
REMOVE PARKING THAT WE LOOK AT
IT FROM AN EQUITY LENS AS WELL
AS FROM A PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
LENS OR CYCLING SAFETY LENS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF 06 COUNCILOR SHEINER THANKS
FOR PEOPLE THE PUBLIC WHO
AREN&apos;T EXACTLY CLEAR ON WHERE
THIS IS.
IT&apos;S THAT CRAZY STRIPING FOR
FIRE TRUCKS CAN HARDLY GET
THROUGH WHERE WE PUT THE
PARKING THE BIKE LANE AND WE&apos;VE
KIND OF TIED IT ALL UP AND
THERE&apos;S PARKING RIGHT AWAY
PARKING BIKE LANE CURB IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S NOT GOOD THERE.
IT&apos;S NOT GOOD.
SOMETHING HAS TO BE DONE THERE
AND I JUST IT WASN&apos;T GOOD FROM
THE GET GO AS FAR AS I WAS
CONCERNED AND I HEARD FROM A
LOT OF PEOPLE THAT WERE LIKE
THEY COULDN&apos;T EVEN UNDERSTAND
WHAT WAS GOING ON THERE.
AND OF COURSE YOU SEE THE
SCATTERED PARKING AND HOW IT
WASN&apos;T REALLY WORKING TOGETHER.
I DON&apos;T KNOW THAT GETTING RID
OF THE CARS IS THE RIGHT
SOLUTION BUT THAT CLEARLY IS A
TREND IN OUR POLICY HERE.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S ANOTHER
CASE OF WHERE THE VAST MAJORITY
OF PEOPLE WHO COMMENTED ON THIS
MOVE WERE NOT RESIDENTS OF THE
AREA.
I THINK THERE WAS LESS THAN A
FIFTH OF THE PEOPLE WHO LIVE
THERE ACTUALLY COMMENTED ON IT
AND SO WE HAVE A COUPLE HUNDRED
PEOPLE IN OUR COMMUNITY WHO ARE
DON&apos;T WANT CARS ON OUR STREETS
ANYMORE AND THAT&apos;S THE WAY IT&apos;S
GOING.
SO JUST BE AWARE ANN ARBOR,
THAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S HAPPENING HERE.
SO IT WAS IT WAS FOUL AND NOW
WE&apos;RE GOING TO REDO IT FOR
SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS.
SO I JUST IT&apos;S A HOPEFULLY BUT
A DOUBTFULLY WE WILL LEARN OUR
LESSON FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER ROB LOWIE, THANK
YOU.
YEAH.
THIS HAS BEEN KIND OF A PROBLEM
FOR A WHILE.
IT WHEN THE MARKET FOR CHANGE
IN THE PATTERNS ARE WERE
CHANGED A YEAR OR TWO AGO AND
REALLY WITHOUT MUCH
CONSIDERATION BY THIS BODY THAT
THEY BELIEVE WAS
ADMINISTRATIVELY DONE JUST AS A
SITUATION WHICH I FEEL WHEN
DRIVING DOWN THERE IS MORE
DANGEROUS.
YOU REALLY CAN&apos;T SEE PEOPLE IN
BETWEEN THOSE CARS, PEOPLE
GETTING IN AND OUT THE WIDTH
OF THE AREA FOR A VEHICLE TO GO
THROUGH IS VERY NARROW.
I&apos;M JUST GLAD NO ONE&apos;S DIED IN
THE MEANTIME, I DON&apos;T KNOW IF
THIS IS A PERFECT SOLUTION BUT
I THINK THERE IS ONE THING THIS
IS GOING TO ADD INCREASED
PRESSURE ON A STRESSED PARKING
SITUATION AND YOU KNOW, AGAIN,
I&apos;VE SAID IT BEFORE PEOPLE WITH
MONEY WILL CONTINUE TO HAVE
THAT PRIVILEGE.
I WILL RAISE THE QUESTION AND
THE ISSUE THAT WE&apos;RE SEEING
FURTHER DOWN THE STREET OR
TRASHCANS ARE SAID TO RAISE
CURB AND I&apos;M NOT SURE EXACTLY
HOW THIS WILL BE DESIGNED BUT
WHEN THEY&apos;RE TRASHED YOU HAVE A
PROBLEM WITH TRASH BEING
KNOCKED OVER BECAUSE OF WIND IN
CARS BLOWING AND YOU HAVE BIG
PROBLEMS IN THE BIKE LANES AND
THERE&apos;S NOT A REALLY GOOD
SOLUTION RIGHT NOW FOR
RECYCLING HEARTS AND TRASH
CARDS TO BE PLACED IN PICKED UP
AND SERVICED.
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW STAFF IS HERE
TO HELP EXPLAIN WHAT WILL BE
DONE IN THIS INSTANCE TO
ADDRESS THIS THIS CURRENT ISSUE
WE&apos;RE HAVING UH, FURTHER DOWN
ON DIVISION MR DARNAY RAIMUND
HOUSE IS AVAILABLE TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS.
YES.
GOOD EVENING COUNCIL HAS
TRANSPORTATION MANAGER FOR THE
CITY TO ADDRESS COUNCIL MAUI&apos;S
CONCERN.
I THINK THAT IN THE NEW
CONFIGURATION WILL HELP WITH
THE PLACEMENT OF THE CARTS
BECAUSE THE CYCLE TRACK WILL
NOW RUN ON THE EAST SIDE OF THE
ROAD.
THERE WILL BE A BUFFER BETWEEN
THE CYCLE TRACK AND THE
VEHICULAR TRAVELING AND AS IS
THE CASE WITH OTHER CYCLE
TRACKS THROUGHOUT TOWN THAT
WILL ALLOW AN AREA FOR PEOPLE
TO PUSH THEIR CARTS IN THAT IS
NOT IN THE BIKE LANE AND IT&apos;S
NOT UP AGAINST THE CURVE BUT
RATHER IN THAT SORT BUFFER AREA
RIGHT NOW THE CARS THAT ARE
PARKED ARE IN THAT AREA SO THEY
ARE THE BUFFER BUT ON-STREET
PARKING IS REMOVED FROM THAT
SIDE OF THE ROAD ESPECIALLY
BETWEEN A DIVISION OR I&apos;M SORRY
HILL AND JOHN.
SO THERE THERE WILL BE KIND
OF THIS BUFFER AREA FOR PEOPLE
TO ROLL THEIR CAR ESPECIALLY
FROM THE EAST SIDE OF THE ROAD.
SO HOPEFULLY THE SITUATION WILL
ACTUALLY BE IMPROVED ESPECIALLY
FOR SOLID WASTE AND WE DID
REVIEW THIS PLAN WITH SOLID
WASTE AS WELL AS EMERGENCY
RESPONSE AND INTERNALLY
EVERYBODY THINKS THIS NEW
DESIGN WILL SERVE THE NEEDS
OF THE AREA A LOT BETTER THAN
THE CURRENT CONFIGURATION
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKES.
YEAH, THINK EXCITED TO SEE THIS
MOVE FORWARD.
OBVIOUSLY TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION HAS LOOKED AT IT AND
AND APPROVED IT IN MAY AS
COUNCIL MEMBERS HAVE NOTED,
THIS HAS HAD EXTENSIVE PUBLIC
FEEDBACK WHICH HAS BEEN QUITE
SUPPORTIVE.
IT&apos;S ALSO ALONG THE TREND
OF WHAT WE&apos;VE SEEN IN OUR
COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION
PLAN WHICH HAD WIDESPREAD
ENGAGEMENT ACROSS OUR COMMUNITY
AND VERY SUPPORTIVE OF CREATING
A SAFER, MORE ACCESSIBLE
MULTIMODAL ENVIRONMENT.
SO THAT&apos;S GOOD IN TERMS
OF COMMENTS AROUND EQUITY, I
THINK WE CAN ALWAYS BE AWARE
THAT TRANSPORTATION IS THE
SECOND BIGGEST COST IN
HOUSEHOLD BUDGETS AND SO WHEN
WE ARE PROVIDING OUR RESIDENTS
WITH THE OPTION TO SAFELY GET
AROUND OUR COMMUNITY BY FOOT,
BY BIKE, BY TRANSIT, WE ARE
MAKING OUR COMMUNITY MORE
EQUITABLE FOR THE DISCUSSION OR
FAVOR.
I&apos;M SORRY OUR DISCUSSION
COUNCILOR RAMOGI.
YEAH YEAH.
IF I COULD USE A LITTLE BIT
MORE TIME SORRY UM I WILL BE
SUPPORTING THIS BUT JUST WHILE
WE HAVE AGREEMENT HERE IF HE
CAN HELP ME BETTER UNDERSTAND
WHAT&apos;S GOING ON ON THE I MEAN I
GUESS I&apos;LL JUST TAKE THIS
OFFLINE ACTUALLY I WON&apos;T WASTE
THIS ABOUT HIS TIME RIGHT NOW
ON IT.
GO OFFLINE WITH IT.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED.
&gt;&gt; CSX IS APPROVED THE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
WITH SAM SCHWARTZ CONSULTING
LLC AMOUNT OF ONE ONE HUNDRED
AND THIRTY FOUR THOUSAND TWO
HUNDRED SEVENTY ONE DOLLARS AND
APPROPRIATE FUNDS FOR THE STAKE
TRUNK LINE JURISDICTION FOR A
STUDY IN THE AMOUNT OF ONE
HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS MOVE BY COUNSEL FOR
GRISWOLD SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DIS DISCUSSION PLEASE
ASSOCIATE COUNSEL FOR GRISWOLD
.
YES I MENTIONED BEFORE THE
ONGOING PROJECT TO ILLUMINATE
CROSSWALKS IN THE SCHOOL WALK
SO THIS IS A CRITICAL PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; WE KNOW THE CONDITION OF OUR
ROADS RIGHT NOW.
THEY WERE SO BAD THAT WHEN OUR
NEW CITY ADMINISTRATOR ARRIVED
HE IMMEDIATELY CAME UP WITH A
SOLUTION, A BINDING SOLUTION TO
TRY TO MOVE SOME OF THAT WORK
FORWARD.
SO THIS ACTUALLY IS ONE HUNDRED
AND SIXTY THOUSAND DOLLARS THAT
WE COULD BE SPENDING
UNILLUMINATING CROSSWALKS, AN
ALREADY APPROVED PROJECT.
BUT INSTEAD WE&apos;RE GOING TO
STUDY WHETHER WE SHOULD TAKE
OVER THE STATE TRUNK LINE AND
I
THINK IF YOU ASK ANYONE CAN WE
AFFORD TO TAKE OVER THE STATE
TRUNK LINES GIVEN THE CONDITION
OF OUR ROADS THEY WOULD
PROBABLY SAY NO.
&gt;&gt; SO I KNOW THAT WE&apos;RE MOVING
FORWARD WITH THIS BUT THIS
BRINGS ME BACK TO THE OTHER
ISSUE.
WE HAD A RESOLUTION AND
ACTUALLY I THINK IT&apos;S
COMMUNICATION FOR FOR MRS
STOKES PROVIDED SOME
COMMUNICATION.
WE HAD A MEETING ABOUT GREATER
COORDINATION BETWEEN OUR
DIFFERENT PROGRAMS AND I THINK
THIS IS ANOTHER EXAMPLE WHERE
WE&apos;VE GOT DATA TO SUPPORT DOING
SOMETHING BUT WE&apos;RE VERY
NARROWLY FOCUSED ON IT AND
WE&apos;RE IGNORING ALL OF THESE
OTHER PROJECTS INCLUDING A
GREATER RISK TO OUR
SCHOOLCHILDREN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION, COUNCILOR HAYNER.
&gt;&gt; SORRY ABOUT THE MIKE BEING
THERE.
&gt;&gt; UM, WELL, THE FIRST THING I
WAS GOING TO SAY WAS, YOU KNOW,
60000 THERE A QUARTER MILLION
HERE PRETTY SOON YOU&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT REAL MONEY.
BUT I HAVE TO AGREE THAT I
DON&apos;T KNOW THE RESULTS OF THIS
STUDY.
&gt;&gt; ONE OF THE RESULTS HOPEFULLY
IS GOING TO SAY HEY, THIS IS
WHAT THIS IS HOW MANY YOU PARTS
OF A MILE OF THESE WE&apos;RE GOING
TO TAKE OVER?
I&apos;M GOING TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
MOVING IN THE FUTURE AND I&apos;M
SURE IT&apos;S A HUGE AMOUNT.
IT&apos;S GOING TO COST A FORTUNE TO
MAINTAIN THESE ROADS AND WE&apos;RE
TAKING THEM OVER IF WE&apos;RE
STUDYING TAKING THEM OVER
EFFECTIVELY BECAUSE WE ARE NOT
ALLOWED TO CHOOSE THE SPEED
WE&apos;D LIKE TO BE HONEST.
WE&apos;D LIKE IT TO BE ON THE
STREETS.
IT&apos;S CHOSEN BY A STATE DICTATED
FORMULA AND SO WE WANT TO TAKE
OVER WASHTENAW HERE ON OTHER
STATE LINES NORTH MAIN AND SAY
TWENTY FIVE LIKE EVERYWHERE
ELSE IN THE CITY THAT&apos;S OK BUT
THEIR TRUNK LINES FOR A REASON
AND I&apos;LL BE INTERESTED.
I KNOW THE STUDY IS GOING TO
PASS BECAUSE WE LOVE STUDIES.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT GOING TO VOTE FOR
IT.
IT&apos;LL BE INTERESTING TO SEE
WHAT THEY COME BACK AND SAY
WHAT THE COST OF CARRYING THAT
IN THE FUTURE ARE GOING TO BE
FOR IN PERPETUITY FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AND WHAT THAT&apos;S
GOING TO ADD TO OUR OUR BUDGET
AND IT&apos;S GOING TO BE LOST WHEN
WE START SPENDING MONEY
MAINTAINING STATE ROADS.
THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
.
&gt;&gt; NO THANKS JUST FOR FOLKS
THAT HAVEN&apos;T LOOKED AT THIS,
THE SCOPE OF THIS ANALYSIS WILL
WELL HASN&apos;T FORMALLY BEEN
DRAFTED YET ACCORDING TO THE
MEMO ANTICIPATES THAT IT WILL
INCLUDE THE COST BENEFIT
ANALYSIS OF NEAR TERM MID-TERM
LONG TERM CONSIDERATIONS SUCH
AS THE CONDITION OF THE
ROADWAYS COST TO BRING THE
ROADS UP TO AN ACCEPTABLE STATE
OF GOOD REPAIR COST TO OPERATE
AND MAINTAIN THE ROADWAY IN
PERPETUITY AND ANTICIPATED
INCREASES TO GAS TAX REVENUES.
ADDITIONALLY, STAFF INTEND TO
FOR THE ANALYSIS TO CAPTURE
OTHER POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE
EXTERNALITIES THAT MIGHT RESULT
FROM THE TRANSFER OWNERSHIP AND
IT GOES ON IF FOLKS WANT TO
READ ON THAT.
BUT I THINK THAT WE MAY
INDIVIDUALLY HAVE OPINIONS
AROUND THIS.
I CERTAINLY DO.
I THINK THAT MANY IN OUR
COMMUNITY MIGHT SAY THAT WE
CAN&apos;T AFFORD NOT TO TAKE
OWNERSHIP OF THESE GIVEN WHAT
THE COST OF NOT BEING ABLE TO
CONTROL THE DESIGN OF THESE
ROADWAYS HAS MEANT FOR OUR
COMMUNITY IN THE LONG TERM BOTH
IN TERMS OF OUR ACTUAL LIVES
OF THAT HAVE BEEN IMPACTED
THROUGH CRASHES BUT ALSO IN
TERMS OF ACCESSIBILITY
THROUGHOUT OUR COMMUNITY.
SO YOU KNOW, WE CAN THINK ABOUT
KIDS TRYING TO WALK AND BIKE TO
SCHOOL.
YOU CAN THERE ARE COUNTLESS
EXAMPLES OF WHY WE CAN THINK
ABOUT IT IS JUST THE ENTRY WAY
INTO OUR COMMUNITY AND AND THE
IMAGE THAT WE PRESENT.
BUT IT&apos;S IMPORTANT THAT WE
WOULD GO INTO ANY CONVERSATION
AROUND THIS WITH GOOD DATA,
GOOD INFORMATION AND BE HAVE AN
INFORMED CONVERSATION AND
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S WHAT THIS DOES.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO BEING ABLE
TO SEE WHAT COMES BACK TO US
AND BE ABLE TO HAVE THAT
INFORMED CONVERSATION THIS
TABLE OR THE DISCUSSION
KATZENBERG GRISWOLD YEAH.
I DON&apos;T WANT TO DISAGREE WITH
THE MERITS OF THE STUDY BUT I
THINK IT&apos;S PREMATURE TO BE
SPENDING THIS KIND OF MONEY
RIGHT NOW WHEN WE HAVE UNLIT
SCHOOL ACROSS WHICH I THINK IS
JUST CRIMINAL.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S NO EXCUSE WHATSOEVER
TO OTHER RELATED THINGS.
WE NEED TO BE WORKING CLOSELY
WITH THEM AND WE NEED TO BE
WORKING CLOSELY WITH DTI.
WE ARE NOT ABLE TO MAINTAIN
STREET LIGHTING.
THE ROADS BELONG TO END UP BUT
WE&apos;RE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE
STREET LIGHTING ON THOSE ROADS
.
WE RECENTLY HAD A STREET LIGHT
OUTAGE THAT LASTED TWO WEEKS
BECAUSE WE THOUGHT THE LIGHTS
BELONG TO BE TO EAT BUT THEY
BELONG TO US.
WE HAVE A PATTERN WHEN WE HAVE
CONSTRUCTION WHICH WE HAVE A
LOT OF DOWNTOWN WIRES GET CUT
AND WE WAIT FOR SOMEONE TO
COMPLAIN.
WE NEED TO BE PROACTIVE ABOUT
THAT.
SO AGAIN, THIS IS PREMATURE.
WE NEED TO GET OUR HOUSE IN
ORDER BEFORE WE START TALKING
ABOUT TAKING OVER OR EVEN LOOK
AT TAKING OVER MORE ASSETS IN
THIS COMMUNITY.
FURTHER DISCUSSION, COUNCILOR
RIMAWI, THANK YOU.
I WON&apos;T BE SUPPORTING THIS HERE
TONIGHT.
HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS TO TAKE A LOOK AT A
STUDY THAT I FEEL WE HAVE
LITTLE CHANCE AT ACTUALLY
PURSUING.
I JUST FEEL IT&apos;S A WASTE
OF MONEY BASED ON OUR CURRENT
SITUATION BASED ON OUR CURRENT
NEEDS OR BUDGET INFLATIONARY
COSTS.
I KNOW THIS COUNCIL HASN&apos;T BEEN
HIT WITH THIS OVER NEWS BUT I
THINK IN A YEAR OR TWO THERE&apos;S
GOING TO BE SOME SERIOUS BELT
TIGHTENING AND RIGHT NOW I
DON&apos;T THINK THIS COUNCIL IS
AWARE OF WHAT&apos;S COMING DOWN THE
PIPE AND ONE HUNDRED SIXTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS IN A COUPLE
OF YEARS OR NEXT YEAR IS GOING
TO BE SOMETHING YOU&apos;RE GOING TO
BE TRYING TO FIND AND I THINK
WE&apos;RE WASTING MONEY HERE.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE RESOLUTION
AND YOU READ THE LANGUAGE
OF THE WHEREASES AND AND HOW WE
GOT TO THIS, IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S I
THINK HALF BAKED THIS CONTRACT
WAS CUSTOMIZED FOR THIS
PARTICULAR CONSULTANT WHO HAS
DONE A LOT OF WORK FOR OUR
CITY.
HE&apos;S DONE GOOD AND GOOD WORK
BUT IT REALLY IS I KNOW IT
LACKS SPECIFICS.
I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S GOING TO
DELIVER MUCH AND WE COULD BE
SPENDING THIS MONEY IN OTHER
PARTS OF OUR INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT IS FAILING.
THE ROADS ARE TERRIBLE.
HOPEFULLY THEY GET BETTER SOME
OF THE BETTER ROADS ARE
ACTUALLY THE ONES OWNED BY HIM.
THAT AND I THINK THERE ARE
BETTER WAYS THAT WE CAN
COLLABORATE WITH THEM IN ORDER
TO ACHIEVE THE SAFETY ISSUES
THAT WE WE WANT TO ACHIEVE AND
THE GOALS I DON&apos;T THINK A
COMPLETE TAKEOVER OF THEIR
ASSETS IS A WAY AND THE ONLY
WAY THAT WE CAN GET TO ZERO I
QUITE FRANKLY DON&apos;T AGAIN FEEL
COMFORTABLE AND CONFIDENT THAT
WE CAN EXECUTE THIS AND I&apos;D
RATHER JUST NOT EVEN WASTE ONE
HUNDRED FIFTY HOURS AND I
REALLY BEGINNING WITH COUNCILOR
NELSON THANK YOU.
I NEED SOME CLARIFICATION.
I READ THE MEMO I READ THE
CONTRACT ATTACHED TO THIS NOR
DOES IT EXPLAIN WHAT IS THE
FUNCTIONAL DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
US TAKING THESE OVER AND ERM
REMAINING IN CONTROL OF THEM.
I APPRECIATE THAT THERE ARE
EXAMPLES OF TREATMENTS OR
CHANGE IS THAT WE WOULD HAVE
PREFERRED TO BE MADE TO THESE
ROADS THAT DIDN&apos;T GRETA DO I
SEE THAT BUT ARE WE TAKE IT IF
WE WERE TO TAKE THIS ON IT WERE
WE ARE WE IN ENDEAVORING TO
MAKE TAKE US TO PAY FOR A STUDY
SO THAT WE ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT OF THE COST
OF REPAIR THESE ROADS?
IS THAT WHAT WE DO?
IS THAT WHAT THIS IS
CONTEMPLATING LIKE WHAT IS THE
IT CAN SOMEBODY IS THERE
ANYBODY ON STAFF WHO CAN
EXPLAIN LIKE AN EMPTY TRUNK
LINE?
HOW MUCH DOES MY TAKE ON IN
TERMS OF THE COST
OF MAINTENANCE OF THOSE ROADS
VERSUS ROADS THAT ARE ENTIRELY
IN OUR JURISDICTION?
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S WHAT I&apos;M
INTERESTED IN UNDERSTANDING.
&gt;&gt; MR TONY, BOTH MR HUTCHINSON
AND MR HICKS ARE AVAILABLE FOR
QUESTIONS.
&gt;&gt; I CAN TRY TO FIELD THIS ONE
HERE.
THIS IS NEGLIGENCE AND CITY
ENGINEER RIGHT NOW ON TRUNK
LINES AND THAT HAS SOUL
MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY
OTHER THAN MINOR THINGS LIKE
POTHOLE FILLING AND THINGS LIKE
THAT WHICH WE HAVE A TRUNK LINE
AGREEMENT FOR THAT THEY&apos;LL
REIMBURSE US FOR FIXING
POTHOLES.
&gt;&gt; THEY DO, YES.
OK, IF WE WERE TO TAKE OVER THE
TRUNK LINES THEN THE
REQUIREMENT TO MAINTAIN THOSE
ROADS WOULD ALL COMPLETELY ON
US.
IT WOULD ALSO INCREASE OUR
FIFTY ONE DOLLARS THAT WE
RECEIVE BECAUSE WE WOULD HAVE
MORE MILES OF STREET AND
TYPICALLY WHAT WE&apos;VE SEEN
HAPPEN IN OTHER CASES IS THAT
WE WOULD NOT TAKE THEM OVER FOR
FREE.
THERE WOULD ALSO BE A PAYMENT
FROM NOT TO TAKE THEM OVER AS
WELL.
WE DON&apos;T KNOW HOW MUCH THAT
WOULD BE AND THAT&apos;S ALL
OF THESE NUMBERS OR PART OF THE
CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE STUDY
.
&gt;&gt; I CAN&apos;T I MEAN HAVING HAVING
READ THE EXCUSES OR THE REASONS
WHY WE WOULD WANT TO PURSUE
THAT SO THAT WE COULD HAVE
DECISION MAKING POWER.
I CAN&apos;T POSSIBLY SUPPORT THIS.
THIS DOESN&apos;T I I APPRECIATE YOU
ANSWERING THAT QUESTION, NICK.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
UM, YEAH.
THIS THIS SOUNDS LIKE I CAN&apos;T I
CAN&apos;T EVEN IMAGINE HOW STRONG
THE CONFUSION THAT THIS WAS
WORTH OUR WHILE SO I CAN&apos;T
IMAGINE SPENDING ONE HUNDRED
THIRTY FOUR THOUSAND TO FIND
OUT HOW MUCH IT&apos;S GOING TO COST
KALTENBRUNNER OR
CANTERA BREAKS
.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I THINK SO.
JUST TO SPEAK A LITTLE BIT MORE
ABOUT WHAT THE IMPLICATIONS ARE
FOR THIS COMMUNITY AND
PARTICULARLY TO IN THE FIFTH
WARD WHERE THAT I REPRESENT FOR
EXAMPLE ONE OF THE ROADS IS
HURON AND JACKSON THAT GOES
THROUGH THE FIFTH WARD AS
COUNCIL MEMBER RIMAWI IS ALSO
AWARE THROUGH THE COMMUNITY
MEETINGS THAT WE&apos;VE SAT THROUGH
THIS IS A HUGE CONCERN TO
RESIDENTS ALONG THAT ROADWAY
THAT THAT SEE THE SPEEDING AND
THE CARS AND DANGEROUS BEHAVIOR
AND OUR WITNESS ON A DAILY
BASIS THE REALLY UNSAFE
CONDITIONS THAT OUR RESIDENTS
NEED TO TRANSFER IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, THE SALVATION
ARMY IS WHERE THERE&apos;S A FOOD
BANK RESIDENTS NEED TO TRAVEL
OVER FOUR LANES OF TRAFFIC TO
GET TO A TRANSIT STOP.
THEY DO THIS IN THE WINTER AND
I OBSERVE THEM CARRYING FOOD
WITH THEM TRYING TO MAKE THEIR
WAY SAFELY ACROSS THE STREET.
THERE&apos;S A SCHOOL THAT FOLKS GO
ACROSS TO TRY TO GET TO AND WE
HAVE COUNTLESS TIMES ASK THEM
THAT THIS LOCATION AND MANY
LOCATIONS ACROSS OUR COMMUNITY
TO PLEASE PARTNER WITH US AND
POLICE TO CREATE SAFE STREETS
FOR OUR COMMUNITY IN FACT AND
HAS A COMPLETE STREETS POLICY.
AND SO IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT
UNCONSCIONABLE THAT THEY AREN&apos;T
FOLLOWING THIS POLICY HOWEVER
THEY HAVE NOT.
AND SO THIS IS ONE REASON
OF MANY THAT WE NEED TO BE
EXPLORING THIS.
WE HAVE A TRANSPORTATION PLAN
THAT OUR RESIDENTS HAVE THAT
CALLED FOR THIS IS IT&apos;S
IMPORTANT THAT WE WE LOOK AT
HOW WE IMPROVE ACCESS AND
SAFETY OF OUR ROADWAYS AND ALSO
THE APPEARANCE OF SO I&apos;M SURE
I&apos;M FORGETTING A COUPLE
OF POINTS THAT CAME UP.
I&apos;M SURE OTHERS WILL COVER THEM
KALTENBRUNNER THANK YOU.
I WILL GLADLY SUPPORT THIS.
YOU KNOW I CAN THINK OF QUITE A
FEW EXAMPLES IN RECENT HISTORY
IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS OR SO
OF PEOPLE BEING EITHER KILLED
OR CRITICALLY INJURED ON THESE
PARTICULAR ROADS WHETHER ON
BIKE OR CROSSING AND YOU EVEN
WHEN THE CROSSWALK LIGHTS ARE
THERE AND WORKING, THE PROBLEM
IS THE DESIGN OF THE STREETS
AND THE SPEED AND WE HAVE NO
CONTROL OVER THOSE THOSE
FACTORS WHEN WE DON&apos;T CONTROL
THE ROAD.
AND I THINK THIS IS WELL WORTH
THE MONEY TO SPEND TO TO DO THE
STUDY AND TO TAKE THESE OVER
AND TO MAKE AND OUR COMMUNITY
SO I WILL GLADLY SUPPORT IT.
COUNCILOR GRANT, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
&gt;&gt; WHAT I WANT TO SAY HAS
ALREADY BEEN SAID BUT I&apos;LL
POINT OUT ON THE EAST SIDE
OF TOWN THAT ON WALL STREET IN
PARTICULAR I&apos;VE HAD A NUMBER
OF RESIDENTS BEG TO SEE IF WE
CAN SLOW DOWN THE SPEED ON THAT
ROAD FOR STUDENTS THAT ARE
GOING IT HAPPEN FROM PEOPLE WHO
LIVE AT WASHINGTON WHICH IS
JUST A STONE&apos;S THROW FROM ANGEL
ELEMENTARY AND THERE&apos;S LOTS AND
LOTS OF PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC AND
EVERY YEAR THEY SEE CARS UP ON
THE SIDEWALK UP ON PEOPLE&apos;S
FRONT LAWNS AND IN BED AND IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S A TERRIBLE FEELING TO BE
COMPLETELY HELPLESS AS A
COUNCIL MEMBER WHEN YOU KNOW
THAT IT REALLY IS IN THE HANDS
OF THEM AND THAT WE CAN ASK BUT
THEY&apos;RE UNLIKELY TO MAKE THOSE
CHANGES.
SO I THINK IT&apos;S INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT TO TO GET THESE
ANSWERS TO UNDERSTAND THE TRADE
OFFS AND AND THESE ARE BIG
DECISIONS.
SO SPENDING SOME MONEY TO DO A
STUDY TO UNDERSTAND WHAT THOSE
TRADE GROUPS ARE I THINK WILL
BE CRITICALLY IMPORTANT BECAUSE
WE WILL HAVE HEARD WELL IT
WON&apos;T BE ME BUT YOU ALL WILL
HAVE HARD DECISIONS TO MAKE AND
AND I THINK THIS THIS IS, YOU
KNOW, A GOOD USE OF THOSE
DOLLARS COUNCIL BRITISH I
WANTED TO ASK MR. HESS IF HE
WOULD CORRECT ME AND ALSO ADD
IF I AM WRONG, IS IT ALL RIGHT
IF I ASK A QUESTION OF MR. HESS
BECAUSE THERE HAVE BEEN SOME
MEETINGS WITH DOUBT ABOUT NORTH
MAIN STREET AND MY
UNDERSTANDING WAS THAT WE DON&apos;T
KNOW ANYTHING FOR SURE BUT THAT
IT IS POSSIBLE TO NEGOTIATE
WITH DODD TO MAKE MANY OF THE
DESIGN IMPROVEMENTS THAT WE
WANT TO NORTHMEN NOT JUST A
REDUCTION OF SPEED BUT BIKE
LANES AND TO OPEN THAT UP TO A
PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY
ENTREPRENEURIAL ZONE WHERE IT
IS RIGHT NOW A HIGHWAY THAT
LEADS INTO THE HEART OF OUR
TOWN IS DID I MISUNDERSTAND
THAT MR. HOUSE?
IS THERE NOT IS THERE NOT A
POSSIBILITY OF NEGOTIATING WITH
AND NOT TO MAKING SOME
IMPROVEMENTS BEFORE WE TAKE IT
OVER?
I HAVE NO DISAGREEMENT BUT
AGAIN SO MY UNDERSTANDING IS
THE SCOPE FOR NORTH MAIN FIRST
OF ALL THAT CURRENTLY IS
PROGRAM FOR FISCAL AH TWENTY
TWENTY SIX.
MY UNDERSTANDING IS FROM THAT I
A RESURFACING PROJECT AND THEY
WERE GOING TO PUT IT BACK THE
WAY IT IS IT HAS BEEN A ONGOING
POINT OF DISCUSSION WITH THEM.
NOT THAT YOU KNOW THAT&apos;S A
HEAVILY USED ACTIVE
TRANSPORTATION CORRIDOR BECAUSE
OF ALL OF THE DESTINATIONS THAT
ARE ON THAT SIDE OF TOWN.
BUT MY UNDERSTANDING IS UNLESS
THE CITY KICKS IN A
CONTRIBUTION FOR UPGRADED
FACILITIES FOR BICYCLE,
PEDESTRIAN AND OR OTHER SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS THAT AND THAT IS
JUST GOING TO PUT IT BACK THE
WAY IT IS NOW.
&gt;&gt; AND THAT HAS ALSO SAID QUITE
HONESTLY OFTENTIMES WELL, YOU
KNOW, THE CITY CAN ALWAYS TAKE
OVER THE ROADWAY IF THEY SO
CHOOSE.
AND SO I THINK PART OF THE
REASON FOR THIS STUDY IS TO
HELP ANSWER THAT QUESTION AND
HELP EVALUATE IF YOU KNOW THAT
OPTION IS TENABLE TO YOU THE
CITY AND CITY COUNCIL.
SO YEAH, IT&apos;S WE HAVE BROUGHT
UP THAT YOU KNOW, THE CITY HAS
SEVERAL POLICIES, DOCUMENTS
THAT CALL FOR ACTIVE
TRANSPORTATION UP THERE AS WELL
AS YOU KNOW, POLICIES THAT CALL
FOR COMPLETE STREETS.
BUT AS OF RIGHT NOW IT DOESN&apos;T
LOOK LIKE THEY&apos;RE GOING TO
INCORPORATE THOSE ELEMENTS IN
THE PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; SOME MIGHT SAY MIGHT SAY IF
WE TOOK IT OVER, MIGHT THAT BE
PART OF THE NEGOTIATION?
WE&apos;LL TAKE IT.
BUT YOU HELP US DO THESE THINGS
RATHER THAN JUST RESURFACING IT
WITH RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; AND I THINK THAT THERE
HUTCHINSON CAN HELP ME RESPOND
HERE BUT I THINK THAT&apos;S EXACTLY
PART OF , YOU KNOW, TRYING TO
GET A FULL PICTURE OF WHAT
TAKING OVER THAT SECTION
OF ROADWAY MIGHT LOOK LIKE.
WHAT ARE THE COST BENEFITS?
WHAT ARE THE TRADE OFFS?
WHAT ARE THE LONG TERM COSTS?
&gt;&gt; WHAT ARE SOME OF THE YOU
KNOW, BOTH FINANCIAL BENEFIT
AND COST BUT ALSO SOME OF THE
COST BENEFITS COSTS RELATED TO
THAT.
&gt;&gt; SO NICK, IF YOU GOT IT THAT
THAT&apos;S IT&apos;S CERTAINLY SOMETHING
THAT COULD BE IN THAT THAT
COULD BE INCLUDED IN FUTURE
NEGOTIATIONS.
WE&apos;VE SEEN THIS DONE A COUPLE
OF DIFFERENT WAYS BUT IT&apos;S NOT
VERY COMMON.
&gt;&gt; SO YES, THERE&apos;S THINGS LIKE
THAT THAT COULD BE INCLUDED IN
THOSE DISCUSSIONS.
COUNCILOR HAYNER.
THANKS, MR HUTCHISON.
WELL, YOU&apos;RE GOT TO HAVE MIKE
THERE AT 51 FUNDS ARE DID HE
COME UNENCUMBERED MUST BE SPENT
ON THE CORRIDOR IN WHICH THEY
HAVE BEEN GATHERED FROM OR AT
FIFTY ONE FUNDS FRANGIBLE.
CAN THEY BE SPENT ELSEWHERE IN
OUR POOL OF ROAD RESOURCES?
YES THEY CAN.
THEY&apos;RE SOMEWHAT FUNGIBLE.
THEY&apos;RE THEY&apos;RE TIED TO THE
CLASSIFICATION OF ROADS THAT
THEY COME IN FOR.
SO MAJOR STREET MONEY THAT
COMES IN FOR MAJOR STREETS NEED
TO BE SPENT ON MAJOR OK THE
STREETS ON THE LOCAL STREETS
BUT OTHER THAN THAT IT GOES
INTO INTO A POT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT TIED TO A SPECIFIC
ROADWAY.
YEAH.
SO WHEN WE ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
THE CONCERNS THAT WE&apos;RE
EXPRESSING HERE ABOUT YOU KNOW,
DO WE REALLY HAVE FUNDS TO DEAL
WITH THESE?
WELL WE MIGHT IF THEY&apos;RE
APPLIED TO THESE VERY STREETS I
KNOW LIKE WE TALK ABOUT THE
DANGERS OF THE SPEED SOUTH
OF HERE ON WASHTENAW IT&apos;S
TERRIBLE THERE WILL ALSO WHAT
IS TERRIBLE THERE IS THE AREA
BETWEEN THE THE BASICALLY THE
BORDER AREA.
THERE&apos;S SOME POTHOLES THAT ARE
AND I HAVE THIRTY ONE AS TIRES
OF MY TRUCK AND IT&apos;S THEY&apos;RE
INSANE THESE POTHOLES AND SO
THAT STREET NEEDS SOME MAJOR
REPAIR THERE.
IT&apos;S VERY DANGEROUS AT THE
SPEEDS I LIVE ON P.A. WHICH IS
POSTED TWENTY FIVE IF WE USE
THEM DAD&apos;S FORMULA OF TAKING
THEIR A PERCENTAGE OF THE
AVERAGE SPEED I PARAPHRASE YOU
KNOW THE AVERAGE SPEED UP ON
ZERO IS PROBABLY THIRTY FIVE
FORTY MILES AN HOUR AND PEOPLE
AND IT&apos;S IT&apos;S SUPER
NEIGHBORHOOD I MEAN IT&apos;S TWO
ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS SIX
CROSSWALKS SEVEN CROSSWALKS YOU
KNOW AND A COUPLE OF BLOCKS IN
MY HOUSE I&apos;M NOT SURE I WONDER
HOW LONG IT WILL TAKE IF WE
TAKE THESE OVER AND WE START
SAYING TWENTY FIVE AND START
INTERJECTING BIKE LANES AND SO
ON AND SO ON FOR IT TO ACTUALLY
BE TWENTY FIVE ON THE STREETS
BECAUSE THEIR TRUNK LINES AND
PEOPLE ARE USED TO TREAT THEM
AS SUCH JUST LIKE THEY TREAT
PONTIAC TRAIL AS SUCH AND YOU
KNOW IT&apos;S UNFORTUNATE THAT
POSTING&apos;S DON&apos;T ALWAYS CHANGE
BEHAVIOR AND NEITHER DOES ROAD
GEOMETRY.
I DON&apos;T KNOW I&apos;M NOT A FAN
OF STUDIES SO I&apos;M NOT GOING TO
SUPPORT THIS.
I&apos;M SURE IT&apos;LL PASS AND WE&apos;LL
FIND OUT THAT IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
A SMALL FORTUNE.
&gt;&gt; SO YOU JUST SAY SOMETHING
REAL QUICK.
I KEEP I&apos;M SORRY YEARS NORTEÑOS
EVERY PARCEL IN NOTTINGHAM IS
IN ACTIVE USE BY A SMALL
BUSINESS THAT GIVES BACK TO OUR
COMMUNITY.
&gt;&gt; NO, IT DOESN&apos;T NEED TO BE
ENTREPRENEURIAL COUNTERASSAULT
.
I&apos;M TRYING TO RECONCILE OUR
EXCITEMENT OVER MY EVALUATION
AND STUDY THAT WE&apos;RE
ENCOURAGING RESIDENTS TO
PARTICIPATE
IN 2014 BERTEN
DRIVE EXIT AND ENTRANCE AND HOW
WE OURSELVES HAVE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT DECADES OF LOST
OPPORTUNITY AND MAKING SURE
THAT&apos;S A SAFE ON AN EXIT RAMP.
I SEE THIS AS A SIMILAR EFFORT
IN EVALUATING WHAT OUR OPTIONS
ARE OPTIONS TO NEGOTIATE WITH
MODOT.
I ALSO SEE THIS IN LINE WITH
WHAT WE VOTED FOR AT THE LAST
MINUTE WHEN WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT TAKING ON OWNERSHIP AND
CONTROL OVER OUR DECISION
MAKING POWER.
SO IF WE ARE IF WE&apos;RE EAGER TO
APPROVE A CONTRACT TO EVALUATE
OUR ABILITY TO CONTROL
MUNICIPAL POWER, I WOULD HOPE
THAT WE&apos;D BE ABLE TO AT LEAST
HAVE THIS START IN NEGOTIATING
WHAT OUR OPTIONS ARE TO CONTROL
SOME ESSENTIAL ESSENTIAL
ROADWAYS WHERE WE KNOW THERE
ARE A NUMBER OF COMMUTERS
COMING IN AND OUT OF TOWN 80000
EVERY DAY AND WHERE WE NEED TO
ADDRESS NOT ONLY JUST
MAINTENANCE BUT SPEED AND HAVE
THIS COMMUTING ENGAGEMENT
OUTSIDE OF WHAT WE&apos;RE SAYING AT
THIS TABLE.
I&apos;M EAGER TO SEE THE RESULTS.
I&apos;M EAGER TO GET THIS WORK
STARTED.
I AM IN FAVOR OF THIS FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILOR NELSON, I NEED
SOME CLARIFICATION FROM
SOMETHING OF SOMETHING THAT I
FEEL LIKE I HEARD FROM MR
HARRIS IN ONE TIME RITESH WAS
ASKING YOU ABOUT SOME OF THE
NEGOTIATIONS AROUND
IMPROVEMENTS TO NORTH NORTHMAN.
WHAT I HEARD YOU SAY WAS THAT
IN NEGOTIATING WITH EMERG THAT
WOULD SUGGEST THAT SOME OF THE
AMENITIES THAT WE WOULD BE
REQUESTING OR WANTING WERE
THINGS THAT WE WOULD HAVE TO
PAY FOR OURSELVES WHICH SOUNDED
TO ME LIKE THERE WAS AN OPTION
SHORT OF TAKING OVER
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ENTIRETY
OF THE ROAD TO SOME OF THESE
CHANGES THAT WE&apos;RE ASKING FOR.
DID I MISS HERE YOU MR HAS NO
NO YOU&apos;RE CORRECT.
&gt;&gt; I THINK SO.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I MIGHT
HAVE SAID AND YOU MAYBE I
DIDN&apos;T ELABORATE ENTIRELY AND I
STILL WOULD HAVE CONTROL OVER
THE ROADWAY SO THEY WOULD HAVE
ULTIMATE SAY ABOUT WHETHER YOU
KNOW WHAT THAT FINAL
CONFIGURATION WOULD BE WHAT
BICYCLE PEDESTRIAN OR TRANSIT
ELEMENTS WOULD BE INCORPORATED
SO FORTH AND SO ON.
BUT IF THEY WERE TO AGREE TO
SOME OF THOSE ELEMENTS THEY
HAVE INDICATED THAT THE CITY
WOULD IT WOULD BE ON THE CITY&apos;S
DIME IN ORDER TO INCORPORATE
THOSE INTO THE INTO THE DESIGN
OF THE ROADWAY BECAUSE RIGHT
NOW THEY ARE JUST RESURFACING
KIRBY CURB.
THEY&apos;RE NOT PUTTING IN
SIDEWALKS.
THEY&apos;RE NOT PUTTING IN, YOU
KNOW, ANYTHING ELSE AND AND SO
THEY A HAVE TO AGREE TO WHAT IT
IS THE CITY WOULD SUGGEST.
BUT THEN THE CITY WOULD HAVE TO
PAY FOR ANYTHING ABOVE AND
BEYOND THAT RESURFACING AS I
UNDERSTAND IT.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU.
WELL I MEAN I GUESS I JUST I
GUESS I CAN&apos;T HELP BUT POINT
OUT THAT WE ACTUALLY HAVE QUITE
A LOT OF EVIDENCE BEFORE US
THAT THE THE AMOUNT OF MONEY
THAT WE WOULD BE GETTING FROM
THE STATE IN RETURN FOR TAKING
ON THESE ROADWAYS IS CLEARLY
INADEQUATE TO MAINTAIN THEM
ACROSS THE CITY.
I MEAN WE HAVE AN EXAMPLE THAT
WE JUST FOUND OUT A FEW DAYS
AGO THAT WE DON&apos;T HAVE ENOUGH
MONEY TO COVER SIRIRAJ ROAD
WHICH RESIDENTS OF SEVERAL
YEARS FOR IMPROVEMENTS ON.
AND FRANKLY AS FAR AS THE
COMPARISON TO PUBLIC POWER,
THAT&apos;S NOT A VERY GOOD
COMPARISON BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T AND
WE ACTUALLY KNOW HOW MUCH MONEY
IS SQUANDERED AND IN THIS CASE
WE ARE NOW SHORT OF FUNDS.
WE ARE TRYING TO MAINTAIN THE
ROADS THAT WE HAVE.
I WILL NOT BE ABLE TO SUPPORT A
STUDY.
I JUST CAN&apos;T CONCEIVE OF HOW
THIS WOULD BE A GOOD IDEA TO DO
.
WE ALREADY KNOW THAT WE CAN&apos;T
AFFORD TO FIX THE ROADS THAT WE
ARE SETTING UP JURISDICTION
OVER.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER I&apos;M GOING
THANK YOU.
A LOT OF WHAT WAS BEING
DISCUSSED HERE HAS BEEN GOOD.
UNFORTUNATELY IT&apos;S THE DEATHS
AND INJURIES THAT OCCUR OCCUR
ON ALL OUR ROADWAYS NOT JUST
AIMED AT ROADWAYS.
I KNOW FIFTH WARD RESIDENTS
HAVE BEEN UPSET WITH THE LACK
OF PROGRESS OVER THERE AND
JACKSON AND THE OTHER STREET AS
WELL, THE ONE THAT WE CONTROL
DEXTER FOR FOR SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS THAT HAVE AND HAVE
BEEN SLOW IN COMING BUT FROM
WHAT I UNDERSTAND, WE ARE GOING
TO BE INSTALLING SOME SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS AT THE RPA MONEY
THAT WAS RECEIVED AT SHORTLY.
YOU KNOW, WE HAVE A LOT
OF SPEEDING, YOU KNOW, ON ROADS
THAT WE CONTROL AND YET WE DO
VERY LITTLE ABOUT THAT.
MILLER S SEVENTH TWO GREAT
EXAMPLES WERE WERE SPEEDERS OR
CONSTANT RESIDENTS HAVE RAISED
THEIR CONCERN DOZENS AND
HUNDREDS OF TIME.
I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S A GOOD IDEA
FOR US TO TAKE THIS OVER.
I ALSO YOU KNOW, THE COMPARISON
OF MUNI POWER AND THIS IS JUST
APPLES TO ORANGES.
YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT
AN EXISTENTIAL CRISIS WITH WITH
CLIMATE CHANGE AND NEEDING TO
GET TO CARBON NEUTRALITY.
THESE ROADS DON&apos;T DON&apos;T
NECESSARILY ADDRESS THAT.
SO AGAIN, BUYING THEIR ASSETS
AND BEING RESPONSIBLE FOR IT.
THAT&apos;S WHAT I HEARD.
CORRECT.
MR HUTCHINSON.
WE&apos;D HAVE TO BUY THESE ASSETS,
NOT JUST TAKE THEM OVER AND
MAINTAIN THEM BUT I GUESS THE
COMPARISON THAT COULD BE MADE
TO MUNI IS THAT IS THAT WE
WOULD HAVE TO BUY THESE ASSETS
.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT SURE IF I HEARD THAT
CORRECT THOUGH IT NO WE
WOULDN&apos;T WE WOULDN&apos;T BE BUYING
THE ASSETS AT ALL LIKELIHOOD
AND THAT WOULD PAY US MONEY TO
TAKE THEM.
OK, WE DON&apos;T KNOW HOW MUCH THAT
IS AND THERE&apos;S NOT REALLY A
PROCESS FOR THAT WHICH IS WHAT
THE STUDY WOULD ADDRESS.
&gt;&gt; I APPRECIATE CLARIFYING THAT
IN ANY REGARD.
AGAIN, I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY
CONFIDENCE THAT WE CAN DO THIS
AND WHY WHY WASTE A HUNDRED AND
FIFTY THOUSAND OF TAXPAYER
DOLLARS?
I DON&apos;T KNOW FOR ANYTHING.
&gt;&gt; CAN CASIMIRA THANK YOU SINCE
THE A CHURCH PROJECT HAS COME
UP TWICE NOW TONIGHT AND THE
LAST STATEMENT THAT WAS MADE
ABOUT IT WAS NOT REALLY
APPLICABLE TO THIS SITUATION.
I JUST DID WANT TO TAKE A
MINUTE TO UM TO CORRECT THE
RECORD AS FAR AS WHY THAT
PROJECT ISN&apos;T GOING FORWARD.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S NOT THAT THAT WE
SUDDENLY RAN OUT OF MONEY TO DO
THE PROJECT.
IT&apos;S THAT THE THE BID THE
LOWEST BID WHEN IT WAS FINALLY
BID OUT CAME IN ONE HUNDRED AND
NINETY THREE PERCENT OVER THE
CITY&apos;S ESTIMATE.
AND THE REASON FOR THAT IS THAT
YOU KNOW, DUE TO FACTORS THAT
WERE OUT OF THE CITY&apos;S CONTROL
IN TERMS OF STATE AND FEDERAL
PERMITTING, THE PROJECT WASN&apos;T
ABLE TO GET STARTED YET THERE
WERE SUPPLY CHAIN ISSUES NOW
THAT CONTRACTORS ARE DEALING
WITH AND MORE IMPORTANTLY NOW
IT WOULD HAVE TO BE STRETCHED
OVER TWO SEASONS AND THAT ADDS
TREMENDOUSLY TO THE COST.
SO I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
THAT PEOPLE UNDERSTOOD WHY THAT
IS NOT GOING FORWARD THIS YEAR
AND THAT&apos;S A THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCILOR SONG MR
HAYES CAN YOU WALK US THROUGH
HOW NEGOTIATING THESE TRUNK
LINES WORKED OUT IN OUR FAVOR
WITHOUT ADDITIONAL ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION FROM A STUDY LIKE
THIS HAS IT&apos;S BEEN LIKE OH WELL
THERE HAVE BEEN SOME EXAMPLES
IN THE FOUR YEARS AT THE CITY
WHERE CITY COUNCILS PASSED
RESOLUTIONS IN SUPPORT
OF SOMETHING WHICH AND HAS NOT
ACCEPTED THE MOST THE CLEAREST
ONE I CAN RECALL IS WHEN THE
D.A. WAS PROPOSING OFF PEAK
STREET PARKING ALONG HERE ON AN
ORDER FOR HIM NOT TO CONSIDER
THAT THEY REQUIRED A POSITIVE
VOTE BY THE COUNCIL.
CITY COUNCIL DID PASS THAT BACK
IN TWENTY NINETEEN I BELIEVE
AND THEN AND DID NOT APPROVE
AND THEN IN TERMS OF JUST WHAT
WOULD ENTAIL BEYOND THAT, YOU
KNOW, IT&apos;S HARD TO KNOW EXACTLY
YOU KNOW THE MOST RECENT
EXAMPLE THAT WE CAN SEE IS
KALAMAZOO HAS GONE THROUGH A
PROCESS BY WHICH TO ACCEPT SOME
STATE FROM FINES THAT GO
THROUGH THEIR COMMUNITY AS NICK
MENTIONED AND PAID THE CITY
OF KALAMAZOO TO DO THAT AND
KALAMAZOO TOOK OVER OWNERSHIP
AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR THOSE
ROADWAYS.
SO YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S HARD TO KNOW
EXACTLY WHICH OF THE ROADWAYS
MIGHT MAKE SENSE AND THAT&apos;S WHY
WE THINK THE STUDY IS BEFORE
YOU TODAY FOR YOUR
CONTEMPLATION IF IT MAKES SENSE
TO YOU AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; SO TO MY UNDERSTANDING THE
STUDY IS JUST THE BEGINNING
OF A CONVERSATION TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT OUR OPTIONS ARE CORRECT.
IT&apos;S NOT A PREDETERMINED EITHER
OR IT&apos;S JUST EXPLORING WHAT OUR
OPTIONS ARE.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
RIGHT.
OKAY.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M OF COURSE GOING TO BE
VOTING IN FAVOR OF THE STUDY.
I&apos;VE BEEN HERE AT COUNCIL SINCE
2008 AND THERE ARE MANY, MANY
TIMES SOME ARTICULATED HERE
WHERE THE THE CONCERNS PLEASE
CREATIVITY ASPIRATIONS OF OUR
COMMUNITY WITH RESPECT TO ITS
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE.
IT&apos;S BUILT INFRASTRUCTURE HAVE
HAVE FLOUNDERED ON THE SHOALS
OF OF THAT&apos;S CONSERVATISM
WHETHER IT&apos;S NORTH MAINE,
HURON, JACKSON OUT TAPPAN WAY
WASHTENAW THESE ARE AREAS
OF OUR COMMUNITY WHERE WE ARE
UNABLE TO AFFECT CHANGE.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE UNABLE TO AFFECT
CHANGE BECAUSE AND THAT OWNS
THESE ROADWAYS WITH THE STUDY
IN HAND WE WOULD BE ABLE TO
DETERMINE WHETHER IT IS
FEASIBLE FINANCIALLY AS A
MATTER OF MAINTENANCE, AS A
MATTER OF FISCAL PRUDENCE TO
THEREAFTER TAKE OVER THE
ROADWAYS AND THEN DESIGN THEM,
MAINTAIN THEM, IMPROVE THEM IN
A WAY THAT MEETS OUR COMMUNITY
ASPIRATIONS WITHOUT THIS
INFORMATION WE WILL BE UNABLE
TO DO THOSE THINGS AND THE
STATUS WITH RESPECT TO THESE
ROADWAYS WHICH IS FRANKLY NOT
SATISFACTORY TO ANYONE I
BELIEVE IN THE COMMUNITY WILL
PERSIST FURTHER DISCUSSION ROLL
CALL VOTE PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; STARTING WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
COUNCIL HAYNER NO REDISH YES
COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD NOW
CASPERSON YES.
COUNTERPROGRAM YES.
DUNSBOROUGH DENHA YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
COUNCILOR YES COUNCILOR AND
ALSO NO PELTZMAN BRIGGS YES.
COUNCILMAN RIMAWI NO NOT
AVAILABLE VALE PUBLIC HEARING
NO WE NOT GO TO A SET OF PUBLIC
HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING.
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
AGENDA ITEM TO WHICH THE PUBLIC
HEARING RELATES SPEAKERS AT
PUBLIC HEARINGS DO NOT NEED TO
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BUT
THEIR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
IN ALL CASES SPEAKERS WILL HAVE
THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK
SO PLEASE PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME YOU&apos;LL BE
NOTIFIED WHEN THIRTY SECONDS
ARE REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE ZONING REZONING OF ZERO
POINT ONE FIVE ACRES FROM C ONE
B COMMUNITY CONVENIENCE CENTER
DISTRICT TO PUDI PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT THREE FOUR
ZERO DIPO ZONING AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS THREE
FOUR ZERO DEPOT.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
URASHIMA HOMECOURT VERY NICE TO
BE WITH YOU TONIGHT.
THERE ARE SOME REAL BENEFITS TO
THIS PROJECT INCLUDING FOR
HOUSING UNITS, SOME OFFICE OR
RETAIL POSSIBLE REMOVAL
OF CONTAMINATED SOIL BUT TO BE
340 PEOPLE MOSTLY ILLUSTRATES
JUST HOW LOW OUR CITY STANDARDS
ARE FOR SUSTAINABILITY AND NEW
CONSTRUCTION.
WE&apos;RE BUILDING ELECTRIFICATION
AS FAR AS WE KNOW NO ROOFTOP
SOLAR.
THERE&apos;S A GREEN ROOF WHICH IS
NICE BUT ARCHITECT THE REMINDED
ENERGY COMMISSION LAST WEEK
THAT ROOFTOP SOLAR IS
COMPLETELY COMPATIBLE WITH
GREEN ROOFS.
IT&apos;S NOT ONE OR THE OTHER.
LET&apos;S COMPARE 340 PEOPLE WITH A
DIFFERENT 1815 NORTH NAPO
PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEWS
OF THAT ONE TOMORROW THOSE
APARTMENTS ARE COMING IN WITH
NINETY KILOWATTS OF ROOFTOP
SOLAR FULL BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION AND ONSITE
BATTERY POWER STORAGE 1850
NORTH MAPLE IS AN EXCEPTIONAL
PLAN BUT IT SHOULDN&apos;T STRATEGY
TO ACTUALLY ONE OF THE TWO ZERO
PLAN INCLUDES THE FOLLOWING
ASSUMPTION QUOTE ALL THE
RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL
BUILDINGS ARE DESIGNED AND
BUILT TO OPERATE WITHOUT THE
USE OF NATURAL GAS AND QUOTE WE
CAN&apos;T ALWAYS ENFORCE IT BUT
IT&apos;S THERE.
LOCAL DEVELOPERS KNOW THIS SO
THEY&apos;VE LEARNED TO AVOID USING
THE G WORD GAS THAT IS.
BUT THAT DOESN&apos;T MEAN THEY&apos;RE
NOT PUTTING IT IN.
HERE ARE SOME DEVELOPER QUOTES
FROM RECENT PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETINGS.
QUOTE HE IS NOT OBJECTING TO
DOING ELECTRIFICATION.
IT IS ONE OPTION HE IS
CONSIDERING THAT MAPLECROFT TO
212 ANOTHER QUOTE WE&apos;LL BE
LOOKING AT EVERYTHING AS WE GET
FURTHER TO THE PROJECT END
QUOTE.
THREE THIRTY DETROIT STREET.
WE HONESTLY ARE NOT SURE WHAT
WE WILL BE USING FOR OUR
HEATING AND COOLING.
WE&apos;RE WORKING THROUGH IT, END
QUOTE.
THAT&apos;S WORTH FORTY DIPO THEY
SAID THEY&apos;D STUDY IT AFTER A
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
NOTICE THE PATTERN.
IT&apos;S DEFLECTION NOT DISCUSSION
.
NO TALK ABOUT UPFRONT COST LIKE
TIME ALLY SUPPLY ISSUES, ENERGY
USE INTENSITY COEFFICIENTS FOR
PERFORMANCE INFORMATION THAT
WOULD BE USEFUL TO THE
CONDITIONS DISCUSSED IN THE
PUBLIC THAT WE LEGITIMIZE THE
DISCUSSION AND THEY SAY IT&apos;S
CRUCIAL TO TALK BUT THEY&apos;RE
REALLY SAYING IS IT&apos;S NONE
OF YOUR BUSINESS HOW WE HIT OUR
BUILDINGS.
YOU CAN BRING A PARKING
STORMWATER SETBACKS CAR PARTS
FOR RATIO BUT STAY OUT OF OUR
BASEMENT MECHANICAL ROOMS THEY
DO HAVE A POINT BUILDING
CODE DOES NOT REQUIRE A
RECTIFICATION OF NEW
CONSTRUCTION AT THE SAME TIME
IT&apos;S NOT SOME NICE EXTRA IT&apos;S
NOT AN OPTION.
IT&apos;S NOT SOMETHING WE HOPE NO
DEVELOPERS WILL CONSIDER IT
OFFICIAL CITY POLICY AS OF JUNE
1ST TWENTY TWENTY THE NIGHT
CITY COUNCIL PASSED THE
ORIGINAL PLAN.
THANK.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE ELSE LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING?
IS
ALL OVER WITH THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN FIVE THREE
FOUR DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
GO AHEAD THEN.
THIS IS TOM STOPPARD CALLING
WHAT&apos;S HAPPENING IN ARBER THE
PHONE CALL HIM GARBA THAT I&apos;M
SORRY I&apos;M CALLING YOU HE MAY
HAVE BEEN IN PERSON OF EVERY
SINGLE PROJECT WHETHER YOU
APPROVE IT OR JUST DON&apos;T HAVE A
MEASUREMENT OF THE BENEFITS
THAT IT WILL PUT US IN THE
TRAFFIC BECAUSE WE&apos;RE GOING TO
HAVE TO MAKE UP FOR THAT
DEFICIT.
&gt;&gt; WE SHOULD START MEASURING IT
WITH EVERY SINGLE APPLICATION,
EVERYTHING SINGLE NOW
SUSTAINABLY CREATES A DEFICIT
THAT WE MUST OVERCOME IN ORDER
TO REACH OUR ZERO 2030 CURRENT
TARGET GOALS.
WE KNOW NO PROJECTS THAT COME
TO THE CITY WITHOUT THAT NUMBER
ATTACHED TO THEM SO THAT WE CAN
MEASURE HOW MUCH OF A HOLE
WE&apos;VE GOT OURSELVES INTO IF WE
PUT THAT PROJECT AND THEN WE
HAVE TO DIG OURSELVES OUT IF
WE&apos;RE GOING TO NEED TO ZERO OR
WHAT I LIKE MOST OF THIS
PROJECT IN THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN PROVIDE AN EXCUSE TO THAT
LOCATION WHICH ITS NEIGHBOR THE
GARDENER DID NOT AT THE TIME
THAT IT WAS EVENTUALLY APPROVED
PRETTY MUCH AS A COMPROMISE
BECAUSE IT HAD SOME
INAPPROPRIATE REQUESTS IN ITS
ORIGINAL APPLICATION THAT WERE
MADE A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WAS
NOT MET.
WE DID GET NINE THOUSAND
DOLLARS A UNIT OF A GARDEN FOR
AFFORDABLE WE FUND SO THERE
WERE SOME GIVE AND TAKE IN THIS
CASE.
&gt;&gt; I DO APPRECIATE THE MIXED
USE GOING TO WALKABLE
NEIGHBORHOODS.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO NEED THAT MIXED
USE THAT IS A BENEFIT FROM THIS
LOCATION THAT WILL BE VERY
VALUABLE TO THAT NEIGHBORHOOD
GIVEN ITS LOCATION NEAR THE
TRAIN STATION NEAR ARE THE
RESIDENTIAL BREAK AND IT&apos;S VERY
HEAVILY SKEWED RESIDENTIAL
HOPEFULLY MORE TIME WILL BE
MORE TO COME IN TERMS OF MIXED
USE THAT THE TREES THAT&apos;S GOING
TO COME TO THAT AREA WHICH YOU
TO PROVIDE FOR THE USE OF MIXED
USE LOCATION IF IT&apos;S
APPROPRIATELY I KNOW WE CAN&apos;T
CONTROL WHAT THE WITH THE
TENANT MIX WOULD BE TO SUPPORT
THIS PROJECT.
I WOULD HOPE THAT WE COULD
BUILD A SUSTAINABLY 37 INSISTS
THAT EVERYTHING BE MEASURED FOR
SUSTAINABILITY WHETHER IT&apos;S
APPROVED OR NOT APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS UP SEE NO IN
PUBLIC NO ONE IS CLOSED PUBLIC
NO.
TWO RESOLUTION RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THREE FOUR ZERO PUDI
SITE PLAN THREE FOUR ZERO DIPO
STREET.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE WHO&apos;D LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR TARAKAN
OVER AGAIN CYCLING THIS TIME I
JUST SPOKE ABOUT HOW DEVELOPERS
HAVE LEARNED TO DEFLECT THE GAS
QUESTION.
HERE&apos;S HOW IT WENT DOWN WITH 40
PEOPLE A YEAR AGO AT THE
CITIZEN PARTICIPATION MEETING,
ARCHITECT ARCHITECT WAYNE CHALK
SAID QUOTE WE ARE INVESTIGATING
AN ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING AND
QUOTE IN JANUARY TWENTY TWENTY
TWO TED HIRSCHE MIDWESTERN
CONSULTING WROTE THE CITY THAT
QUOTE THE HONOR PROJECT
ARCHITECT MEPA TEAM CONTINUE TO
REVIEW THIS OPPORTUNITY FOR
THIS PROJECT.
HOWEVER, THEY&apos;RE NOT ABLE TO
FULLY COMMIT TO AN ELECTRIC
ENERGY ONLY PROJECT END QUOTE.
ON JUNE 7TH, ARCHITECT DAVID
NMES TOLD A PLANNING
COMMISSION QUOTE THE OWNER HAS
BEEN RELUCTANT TO PURSUE ANY
FURTHER ENGINEERING ON THE
PROJECT DUE TO THE FACT THAT HE
WAS UNCERTAIN AS TO HOW THESE
INITIAL HEARINGS WOULD GO.
THE OWNER WANTED SOME GUARANTEE
BEFORE HE TOOK ON THE EXTRA
COST, REFERRING TO THE COST
OF THE STUDY ENGINEERING
MECHANICAL STUDY PLANNING
COMMITTEE THEN APPROVED THE
SITE PLAN AND I HAVE JUST ONE
MORE QUOTE FOR YOU AT JUNE 7TH
MEETING COMMISSIONER SHANNON
GERBRAND SAID THIS TO THE
DEVELOPER ABOUT ELECTRIFICATION
OF THE PROJECT.
SHE SAID YOU HAD INDICATED IN
THE BEGINNING THAT THE OWNER
WANTED SOME SENSE OF SECURITY
AND IT SEEMS BASED ON THE
CONVERSATION TONIGHT THAT WE
ARE GIVING YOU A SENSE
OF SECURITY.
AND SO I WOULD HOPE IN YOUR
PURSUIT OF THIS AS THE BUILDING
DEVELOPS FURTHER IF THAT&apos;S
TRULY THE REASON THAT YOU WOULD
ACTUALLY EXPLORE THIS IN AN
AUTHENTIC WAY IN TERMS OF THE
REALITY OF WHAT WE&apos;RE DEALING
WITH AS A SOCIETY, SHE&apos;S
OBVIOUSLY ALLUDING THERE TO
CLIMATE CHANGE COMMISSIONER
BRANDELL THEN ADDED WE HOPE
THAT YOU WILL RISE TO THE
OCCASION SO AS TO BE ABLE TO BE
PART OF SOLUTIONS THAT WE ARE
GRASPING AT.
FRANKLY AT THIS POINT.
AND SO HERE WE ARE THREE MONTHS
LATER.
MY QUESTION IS WHAT 40 POINT BE
ALL ELECTRIC?
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LOVE TO HEAR THAT
TONIGHT BECAUSE I KNOW THAT
THAT SETS BACK OUR EIGHT ZERO
PLAN GOALS BY ANOTHER SIXTY
FOUR METRIC TON CO2 EQUIVALENT
EMISSIONS ANNUALLY.
THAT&apos;S JUST FROM BURNING EVERY
YEAR FOR THE NEXT 50 YEARS
PROBABLY THIS IS A SMALL
PROJECT BUT IT&apos;S ONE OF MANY
AND THE GAS EMISSIONS ADD UP IF
WE&apos;RE SERIOUS ABOUT EMISSION
REDUCTIONS AND THE ZERO PLAN
THIS NEEDS TO STOP.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE LIKE TO
BUILDING ALL OVER THE PHONE
NUMBER AND AGAIN FIVE THREE
FOUR GO AHEAD.
&gt;&gt; HELLO THIS IS TOM STOLLBERG
AGAIN.
I MET WITH THE DEVELOPER
EARLIER TODAY AND HAD THIS
DISCUSSION ABOUT A PROJECT THAT
I&apos;M WORKING ON AND LOOKING FOR
DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS IN THAT IS
NOT GOING TO HAVE THE FAVORABLE
BUILDING MANAGER FOR IT.
BUT I SAID I WOULDN&apos;T DREAM
OF BUILDING IT WITHOUT.
I&apos;M ALSO LOOKING AT SOME
REDEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES
THAT SOME NEW ZONING CHANGES
HAVE CREATED MY ETHNIC GROUPS
AND AGAIN I&apos;VE ALREADY BEEN
TELLING PEOPLE IT WILL BE
SUSTAINABLE, IT WILL BE BUILT
ELECTRIC HEAT, ELECTRIC
APPLIANCES OPTION AT THIS POINT
IN TIME IF WE&apos;RE GOING TO TAKE
TWO ZERO SERIOUSLY CAN TAKE
CLIMATE CHANGE SERIOUSLY THAT
WE NEED TO DO THAT AND I
WOULDN&apos;T DREAM OF DOING IT THE
OTHER WAY MYSELF.
&gt;&gt; SO THE DEVELOPER OF THIS
PROJECT WOULD KIND OF LIKE THAT
NOW WE&apos;VE BEEN TOLD THIS THAT
THERE&apos;S A WHOLE LOT OF THINGS
THAT WE CAN DO THAT HAVE BEEN
SAID BY PLANNING COMMISSION,
CITY COUNCIL PEOPLE OTHER
PEOPLE ARE MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC BUT AS A DEVELOPER I
KNOW THERE&apos;S A LOT THAT WE CAN
DO AND WE CAN DO A LOT MORE
THAN WHAT WE&apos;RE DOING.
I THINK THE CURRENT PC WANT TO
CALL IT AN ABSOLUTE SHAM FOR
NOT INCLUDING SUSTAINABILITY
EITHER THROUGH REQUIREMENTS OR
INDUCEMENTS AND YOU SHOULD NOT
HAVE THAT REZONING WHEN IT
COMES TO YOU FOR THAT REASON
WHEN YOU ELIMINATED PARKING
MINIMUMS, WHY DIDN&apos;T WE DO THAT
AT THE TRADE FOR SUSTAINABLE
BUILDING?
WHY DID WE GIVE IT AWAY WHEN WE
COULD HAVE TRADED AT THIS POINT
IT&apos;S VERY EASY TRADE THAT WE
CAN OFFER DEVELOPERS IN EVERY
PROJECT THAT IT WOULD TAKE VERY
MINOR AMOUNTS OF COST COMPARED
TO THE SAVINGS AND ENRICHMENT
THAT WE&apos;RE GIVING THEM.
BUT GIVING IN A WAY INSTEAD
OF TRADING IN THE DEVELOPMENT
OPTIONS, COTE AND WE CAN HAVE
MORE AND THAT&apos;S THE WAY WE NEED
TO BE WORKING TO CREATE
INDUCEMENTS IF NOT REQUIREMENTS
FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT.
WE HAVE OUR OWN CODE .
&gt;&gt; ANY BUILDING THAT&apos;S GOING TO
BE RUNNING IT NEEDS TO BE
COMPLIANCE.
WE CAN WORK WITHOUT HAVING TO
START BUILDING CODE TO START
INFLUENCING THIS AND I KNOW
THAT&apos;S COMING IN THIRTY SEVEN
POINT THREE OF OUR EXISTING
RENTAL STOCK BUT WE DO THINGS
NOW FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION USING
THE VARIOUS TOOLS WE HAVE.
IT&apos;S SIMPLY A LOT
OF IMAGINATION THAT WE&apos;RE NOT
DOING IT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
THERE ARE NO OTHER CALLERS WITH
THEIR HANDS UP.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU SO YOU KNOW IN
THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED
WE HAVE BEFORE US A ONE THE
REGULAR SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF SEPTEMBER SIX TWENTY TWENTY
TWO TO HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THIS MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
BECAUSE WHILE TAKING MY
CUSTOMER DISH DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES ON FAVOR POES MINUTES
ARE APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; WE WANT AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF ONE FIVE ACRES FROM
C ONE B COMMUNITY CONVENIENCE
CENTER DISTRICT TO P ONE PUDI
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT THREE FOUR ZERO DIPO
ZONING AND SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS THREE FOUR ZERO
MOVE BY COUNCILMAN OR SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER.
THIS DISCUSSION PLEASE OF BE
ONE MORE DISH.
I REALLY WISH THAT WE DIDN&apos;T
HAVE TO TALK HAVE THIS TALK
ABOUT ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
BY PROJECT BECAUSE IT DOESN&apos;T
PUT US ON SOLID GROUND.
I WISH THAT WE HAD SOMETHING IN
OUR CODE THAT WOULD REQUIRE
THIS OF EVERYONE.
THAT BEING SAID, THIS PROJECT
DOES COME TO US AS A PUDI WE
DON&apos;T HAVE TO APPROVE THIS
ZONING IF WE DON&apos;T WANT TO IF
WE WANT TO ADD MORE
REQUIREMENTS TO IT.
THE DIFFICULTY WITH THIS
PROJECT IS THAT IT IT DOES
PRESENT A COUPLE OF TRADEOFFS
OBVIOUSLY FOR ME A NON GAS
DEVELOPMENT WOULD BE IS IS THE
FIRST THING THAT I WANT BUT IT
IS THE THING THAT WE ARE
PLANNING COMMISSION CAN&apos;T FORCE
AND IN THIS CASE WITH THIS
DEVELOPMENT IT&apos;S COMING TO US
AS A PUDI BECAUSE THE
PETITIONER ASKS MERELY THAT WE
WAIVE THE 15 FOOT CONFLICTING
LAND LAND USE BUFFER FOR THE
EAST AND SOUTH SIDES OF THE
PARCEL.
THAT&apos;S THE PART THE EAST PART
IS THE PART THAT&apos;S UP NEXT TO
THE GARNET.
SO THAT&apos;S NOT A VERY BIG THING
THAT THAT PETITIONER IS BEING
GIVEN AND I BELIEVE THAT THE
VIEW ON THE PLANNING COMMISSION
WAS THAT THE PETITIONERS ARE
ASKING FOR MUCH.
THERE&apos;S ONLY SO FAR WE CAN ASK
THEM TO GO ABSENT SOMETHING IN
THE CITY CODE THAT WE CAN STAND
ON.
THIS IS AN INFILL PROJECT THAT
MEANS THAT IT USES EXISTING
UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE TO MAKE
A BETTER USE OF SPACE THAN WAS
THERE BEFORE.
IT WILL PROVIDE FOR SMALL
RESIDENTIAL UNITS, THREE
OF WHICH WILL NOT BE LARGER
THAN 775 SQUARE FEET.
&gt;&gt; THEY WILL BE RELATIVELY
AFFORDABLE.
THEY WILL NOT BE AFFORDABLE 30
TO 60 PERCENT OF ARMY BUT THEY
WILL BE RELATIVELY AFFORDABLE
BY VERSUS OF THEIR SIZE.
THEY WILL BE LOCATED IN THE
MOST WALKABLE AREA POSSIBLE
WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE
OF GROCERY STORES,
COFFEE SHOPS, BARS, RESTAURANTS
AND A NICE BUT NOT EXCESSIVE
WALK TO THE UNIVERSITY BOTH TO
THE HOSPITAL AND THE CAMPUS.
&gt;&gt; SO THERE ARE ASPECTS OF THIS
PROJECT, JUST STRUCTURAL
ASPECTS OF THIS PROJECT THAT
WILL REDUCE THE THAT CAN REDUCE
THE CARBON FOOTPRINT OF THE
PEOPLE WHO LIVE THERE.
IT HAS BEEN MENTIONED ALREADY
THAT THERE&apos;S A CLEAN UP
OF CONTAMINATED SOIL WHICH IS A
GOOD THING AND 2000 SQUARE FEET
OF A VEGETATED ROOF TO REDUCE
THE COOLING HEATING LOAD OF THE
BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; I UNDERSTAND THAT IT FALLS
SHORT OF WHAT WE NEED TO MEET
OUR CLIMATE EMERGENCY.
IT OFFERS BENEFITS AND AGAIN WE
ARE JUST WE ARE WE ARE NOT
WHERE WE NEED TO BE BUT OUR
REGULATIONS TO BE ABLE TO ENTER
THESE KINDS OF NEGOTIATIONS
WITH DEVELOPERS OVER HERE.
YEAH, THANKS, MR. MAYOR.
I&apos;LL SPEAK TO THE REZONING
ASPECT HERE AND A BE IN SOME
COMMENTS ABOUT THE REST OF IT
UNDER ONE HE HAD A CONFLICTING
LANDY&apos;S BUFFER ZONE.
THIS IS WITH MANY INFILL
PROJECTS WHO ARE KIND OF A
CHALLENGE AND SO THAT&apos;S WHAT
INITIATED THAT, YOU KNOW, THE
PUDI REQUEST AND SO ON AND AND
I THINK IT&apos;S A GOOD POINT TO MY
COUNCIL COLLEAGUE.
YOUR COLLEAGUE MADE THAT YOU
KNOW, IT IS A INFILL AND SO
THAT&apos;S THAT SHOULD BE WHAT IT&apos;S
ALL ABOUT IN THESE NEAR
DOWNTOWN AREAS.
YOU KNOW, WHEN WE DID A STUDY
TO WRITE AND WE WE HAVE REALLY
MILLIONS OF UNDEVELOPED SQUARE
FEET IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA THAT
JUST WAITING WITH POTENTIAL AND
REALLY I WOULD LOVE IT IF WE
HAD FOCUSED ON BUILDING UP THE
DOWNTOWN CORE, YOU KNOW, BUT
IT&apos;S INFILL AND LARGE ZONING
OUTSIDE OF THE DOWNTOWN CORE.
OF COURSE IT MAKES A LITTLE
MORE MONEY FOR THE DEVELOPERS
NOT IN THIS CASE.
BUT YOU KNOW, THAT&apos;S WHERE
WE&apos;RE GOING.
WE&apos;RE GETTING AWAY FROM THAT
DOWNTOWN CORE A LITTLE BIT
WHICH IS KIND OF UNFORTUNATE
BUT I&apos;M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS
TO PAD IT SHOWS THAT PLENTY
OF DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT STILL
HAS MERIT ABSENT A COMMUNITY
BENEFIT BENEFITS ORDINANCE OR
PROGRAM HERE IN PLACE IN THE
COMMUNITY.
IT&apos;S THE BEST OPPORTUNITY WE
HAVE REALLY TO HAVE A BACK AND
FORTH WITH THE DEVELOPER AT
THIS STAGE.
AND SO I&apos;M GOING TO SUPPORT
THIS REZONING AND I&apos;LL RESERVE
THE REST OF MY REMARKS FOR THE
COMMENT ON THE ACTUAL SITE
PLAN.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; ALL FAVOR POSED IT IS
PROVIDED ONE RESOLUTION TO
PROVE 340 D PROPOSED SITE PLAN
THREE FORTY THREE FORTY DEPOT
STREET MOVE BY COUNCIL BRIDGES
SECOND BY COUNCILOR OR
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DB ONE
COUNCILOR HAYNER THANKS I I
KNOW THIS BUILDING AND I HAVE
MET THE OWNER ON OCCASION AND
THE PERSON WHO MAINTAINS THIS
BUILDING ALSO OVER THE YEARS
AND MR FAF HAS A HISTORY
OF MODEST RENTS AT THIS
LOCATION AND I THINK THAT&apos;S
COMMENDABLE IN THIS COMMUNITY.
WHEN I ASK WHEN I ASK HIM WILL
YOU CONSIDER MAKING
THIS
BUILDING ALL ELECTRIC HE SAID
SURE BUT WE DON&apos;T KNOW ENOUGH
ABOUT THE LONG TERM COSTS AND
BENEFITS OF OPERATING AN
ELECTRIC BUILDING AND SOME THAT
SOUNDS TO ME LIKE A BUSINESSMAN
TAKING CARE OF HIS BUSINESS AND
THAT&apos;S OK.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, I SAID A WHILE
BACK AND I AGREE WITH WHAT MR.
GARBER HAS SAID REPEATEDLY AND
SOME OF THE OTHER CALLERS, MR.
STALBERG AND OTHERS THAT AND SO
MY COUNCIL COLLEAGUES HERE THAT
WE SHOULDN&apos;T BE APPROVING ANY
BUILDINGS THAT AREN&apos;T GOING TO
MEET THE CRITERIA OF WHAT WE&apos;RE
EXPECTING TO HAVE ALL BUILDINGS
BE IN 2030 2035 BASED ON OUR
EIGHT YEAR PLAN FROM A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, I DON&apos;T MAKE
A LOT OF PROMISES ON HIS BODY
BUT THAT&apos;S WHEN I MADE IT SO
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO VOTE FOR THIS
ALTHOUGH I THINK IT SHOULD BE
ALLOWED TO BE BUILT BECAUSE
WE&apos;RE CERTAINLY LETTING OTHER
BUILDINGS MUCH LARGER BE BUILT
INCLUDING THE ONE WE JUST SAID
OK TO ON STADIUM AND THE
CONSENT AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; SO I WAS AND ONE KIND
OF SLIPPED BY ME I SHOULDN&apos;T
HAVE VOTED FOR THAT ONE EITHER
.
I BELIEVE THAT IT IS
HYPOCRITICAL OF US TO ASK FOR A
VILLAGE TO SAY ALL THESE THINGS
TO HANGING OUT THERE THAT ALL
WE EXPECT WE EXPECT A RETROFIT
OF EXISTING BUILDINGS BUT WE
DON&apos;T HOLD THE LINE ON NEW
DEVELOPMENT TO BE THE WAY IT&apos;S
SUPPOSED TO BE.
YOU KNOW THAT BUILDING IS GOING
TO BE STANDING HERE IN 2035 SO
DESPITE THE OWNERS, I&apos;M JUST
GOING TO SAY NO FOR THAT
REASON, ALTHOUGH I THINK IT&apos;S
AN OK BUILDING AND WE BELIEVE
THAT A LITTLE BIT MORE BACK AND
FORTH OF MR. FAF WOULD YIELD A
BUILDING THAT IS ALL ELECTRIC
IF IF IT INDEED HAD THE
BENEFITS TO THE OWNER OF THE
BUILDING.
AND YOU KNOW, THAT&apos;S KIND OF UP
IN THE RIGHT NOW WE&apos;RE PUSHING
ON THIS UTILITY, THIS PUBLICLY
OWNED UTILITY REAL HARD.
WE&apos;RE TELLING PEOPLE, HEY,
BUILD YOUR STUFF ALL ELECTRIC
AND THEN TRUST US TO PROVIDE
JUICE FOR YOU FOREVER AND SO
THAT THAT CAN BE NERVE WRACKING
FOR SOMEBODY WHO&apos;S BEEN A
COUPLE OF MILLION DOLLARS INTO
A BUILDING.
SO I CERTAINLY UNDERSTAND WHERE
HE&apos;S COMING FROM BY NOT WANTING
TO MAKE THAT COMMITMENT ON
PAPER AS PART OF THIS
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
BUT HE HAS CERTAINLY MADE IT IN
CASUAL AND SOMEWHAT FORMAL
CONVERSATION TO MYSELF AND
PERHAPS OTHERS THAT HE IS
PERFECTLY WILLING TO LOOK INTO
ELECTRIFYING THIS BUILDING.
&gt;&gt; SO I JUST WANT TO SHARE THAT
WITH THE BODY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS.
YEAH, I&apos;D LIKE TO THANK THOSE
WHO HAVE COME TONIGHT AND ASKED
TO ASKED US TO DO MORE ON THIS
PROJECT.
I THINK YOUR CALL IS IMPORTANT
.
I WILL ADMIT TO BEING VERY TORN
ON MY VOTE ON THIS AND HAVING
WAVERED A LITTLE BIT ON WHAT I
THINK IS APPROPRIATE ON A VOTE
ON THIS.
ULTIMATELY I BELIEVE WE HAVE TO
HAVE CONSISTENCY IN HOW WE
APPROACH OUR PLANNING WORK AND
THAT THERE IS WE UNDERSTAND HOW
THE CODE IS SUPPOSED TO OPERATE
PUTTIES DO ALLOW US ADDITIONAL
FLEXIBILITY AND ADDITIONAL
ABILITY TO NEGOTIATE WITH
DEVELOPERS FOR COMMUNITY
BENEFIT.
BUT WE NEED TO ACKNOWLEDGE THE
LEVEL OF ASP THAT IS BEING
ASKED FOR BY THIS PROJECT WHICH
IS VERY, VERY MINOR AND FACTOR
THAT INTO OUR DECISION MAKING.
I DO ALSO THINK THAT WE NEED TO
WE NEED NEED TO DO OUR WORK TO
MAKE SURE THAT THE BUILDINGS
THAT ARE BEING BUILT IN THE
FUTURE IN OUR CITY VERY
CONSISTENTLY ARE BEING HELD TO
A STANDARD OF BEING ALL
ELECTRIC.
HOWEVER, TO DO THAT WORK IT IS
REQUIRING PRETTY EXTENSIVE WORK
ON THE PART OF OUR PLANNING
DEPARTMENT, OUR DEPARTMENT
OF OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
INNOVATION AND OUR LEGAL
DEPARTMENT TO UNDERSTAND WHERE
WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO DO THAT
AND DO IT CONSISTENT
CONSISTENTLY ACROSS OUR
COMMUNITY.
WHILE I WOULD LIKE TO HAVE THAT
CODE IN PLACE RIGHT NOW, I FEEL
CONFIDENT THAT WE ARE MOVING IN
THAT DIRECTION AND MOVING IN
THAT DIRECTION AS QUICKLY AS WE
CAN.
THAT MEANS THAT WE ARE IN THIS
IN-BETWEEN TIME PERIOD AND
THERE ARE GOING TO BE PROJECTS
THAT I&apos;M VOTING FOR THAT I
DON&apos;T FEEL THAT I WISH WERE A
LITTLE BIT MORE.
BUT TONIGHT I&apos;LL BE SUPPORTING
THIS.
I THINK I THINK IT IS
APPROPRIATE THE COMMUNITY
BENEFITS THAT ARE BEING OFFERED
IN EXCHANGE FOR THE LEVEL
OF ASKE COUNCIL BRITISH I WAS
VERY CHEERED TO HEAR THAT MY
WARD COUNCIL COMPATRIOT HAS HAD
GOOD CONVERSATIONS WITH THIS
DEVELOPER THAT BODES WELL FOR
THE FUTURE AND I WANTED TO
OFFER SOME OTHER CHEERFUL
NEWS WHICH IS ONLY ON THE TOPIC
BECAUSE IT WAS BROUGHT UP BUT
THAT&apos;S 015 UNIVERSITY IN
PROJECT THAT WE APPROVED IS
WILL REPLACE AN EXISTING HOTEL
WITH A 185 UNIT APARTMENT
BUILDING.
IT WILL BE ALL ELECTRIC.
NO GAS LINES ARE PROPOSED FOR
THAT DEVELOPMENT.
IT WILL BE ENERGY EFFICIENT
APPLIANCES LED LIGHTING AND
THERE WILL BE RECYCLING IN
EVERY TRASH ROOM.
IT IS A VERY GREEN PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; FURTHER DISCUSSION TO MY
ROOM.
&gt;&gt; LAURIE, THANK YOU.
UM, YEAH I TO SPEAK ON THIS
BECAUSE I JUST HAD A FEW
MEETINGS LEFT.
WE TALK ABOUT CONSISTENCY AND
THE DESIRE FOR THAT.
UH I CAN ONLY HOLD MYSELF TO
THAT AND YOU KNOW AS WE TRY AND
BE AS SOON AS POSSIBLE AND I
SAY GOVERNMENT THIS IS WHERE
THE SAUSAGE IS MADE.
THIS IS, YOU KNOW, ANOTHER
EXAMPLE OF OF SOME SAUSAGE AND
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THE FUTURE
HOLDS.
I DEFINITELY THINK THESE KIND
OF DECISIONS ARE GOING TO GIVE
YOU A FEW MORE.
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO BE FOR IT TO
BE MADE THE KICKING THE CAN
DOWN THE ROAD AND THEN, YOU
KNOW, DON&apos;T LET THE PERFECTION
BE THE ENEMY OF GOOD YOU KNOW,
SORT THINKING GO ALONG.
THEY&apos;RE NOT GOING TO BE UH IS
NOT GOING TO BE SOMETHING
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO
AFFORD TO DO GOING FORWARD.
WHEN WE TALK ABOUT OTHER
MATTERS, I&apos;LL CHIME IN MORE.
BUT WE IT&apos;S IT&apos;S GOOD TO HAVE
THESE OPPORTUNITIES IN THESE
PUBLIC DISCUSSIONS SO THAT THE
DEVELOPERS AND OTHER MEMBERS
OF OUR COMMUNITY HEAR US AND
YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S GREAT
TO DO THINGS ADMINISTRATIVELY
CUT THE RED TAPE SO WE CAN
DELIVER MORE HOUSING LOWER COST
THAN BURDENED BY COUNCILS IN
ACTION OR OR DELIBERATIONS OR
EXCESSIVE DELIBERATIONS.
BUT I DO BELIEVE THERE IS A
VALUE TO HAVING THESE
CONVERSATIONS PUBLICLY SO
DEVELOPERS AND OTHERS CAN HEAR
WHAT WE&apos;RE LOOKING FOR AND I
JUST WOULD HOPE THAT THE
DEVELOPER WOULD FIND IT
SOMEWHERE TO GO OUT AND MAKE
THIS FOR ELECTRIFICATION.
THIS IS IT WOULD BE A GREAT
PROJECT FOR THAT OBVIOUSLY.
BUT WHEN WE GO TO THE OTHER
ZONING, I JUST HOPE THAT WE
APPROACH IT WITH THE ZEAL THAT
WE APPROACH BIPLANES AND
DENSITY WHERE WE EMBED FEATURES
IN THE ZONING ORDINANCES TO DO
WHAT WE KEEP SAYING WE DON&apos;T
AND CAN&apos;T DO WITH OUR BUILDING
CODES.
SO WE DO HAVE OPPORTUNITY TO DO
IT IN.
&gt;&gt; WE JUST HAVE FAILED TO ACT
IN THE PAST AND AS WE MOVE
FORWARD YES.
REMEMBER THIS YOU ACTUALLY CAN
DO SOMETHING WHEN YOU DO THINGS
LIKE TAKE ONE BECAUSE THIS IS A
SITUATION WHERE YOU&apos;RE TELLING
PEOPLE THE BUILDING CODES DON&apos;T
ALLOW US.
SO HOPEFULLY YOU CAN SEE SOME
CONSISTENCY THERE OR DISCUSSION
COUNTERASSAULT.
DO WE HAVE STUFF ON LINE THAT
UM CAN YOU EXPLAIN IF DENYING
DENYING THE PUDI WHAT THIS
MEANS FOR THE PETITIONER
PROCESS AND YES.
CAN YOU JUST REVIEW FOR US WHAT
WHAT THE IMPACT WHAT THE NEXT
STEPS WOULD BE IF THIS WAS
DENIED?
IT IS THE SELF-AWARENESS DENIED
THE ZONING WAS JUST APPROVED SO
THEY WOULD THEY WOULD HAVE TO
GO BACK THROUGH THE PROCESS OR
ANOTHER SITE PLAN APPROVAL I
SUPPOSE AND THE LAST IT WOULD
BASICALLY GO ONCE THE ZONING ON
THE PROJECT IS APPROVED THEN
THAT WOULD IN EFFECT BE A
PROJECT.
SO THEN IT WOULD ONLY HAVE TO
GO BACK TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR A PIPELINE TO BE
APPROVED AND THEN THE TIMELINE
FOR WHEN WE&apos;VE DENIED FEUDS IN
THE PAST, WHAT IS THE TIMELINE
FOR A PETITIONER TO COME BACK?
WHAT HAS AND HAVE AN ESTIMATED
TIMELINE?
I MEAN I&apos;M ASSUMING THAT
INCREASES COSTS FOR
DEVELOPMENT.
&gt;&gt; IT WOULD IT WOULD BE AN
ENTIRELY NEW SUBMISSION TO BE.
ABSOLUTELY.
SO JUST AS FAR AS THE CITY
FEES, IT&apos;S A WHOLE NEW
SUBMISSION TO BE IN AND HAVE TO
GO TO THE OBVIOUSLY THE CITY
REVIEW PROCESS AGAIN AND
PROBABLY BE A LITTLE BIT OF A
QUICKER REVIEW PROCESS IF IT
WAS ESSENTIALLY THE SAME
PROJECT.
HOWEVER, THEY WOULD ALSO LIKE
OBVIOUSLY PROBABLY TO THEIR
CONSULTANT FEES AS WELL THAT
POINT TIMELINE THERE IS NO
STRICT REQUIREMENT IN THE
CODE OR NOT SHOULD I SAY A
REQUIREMENT OR LIMIT IN THE
CODE OF WHEN THEY CAN COME BACK
AND REAPPLY.
SO IN THEORY THEY IF IT WAS
DENIED THEY THEY COULD PROBABLY
REAPPLY FOR THE SITE PLAN
APPROVAL IN THE NEXT MONTH.
OK, I APPRECIATE THAT MY THE
REASON I ASK THESE QUESTIONS IS
THAT I, I SENSE THAT WE IN
TALKING ABOUT DEVELOPMENT WE WE
OFTEN
TAKE THIS POSITION THAT
IT&apos;S ONLY A BENEFIT TO THE
DEVELOPER WHEN I HOPE I THINK
AT THIS TABLE WE&apos;VE TALKED
ABOUT WELCOMING NEW NEIGHBORS
AND IF THIS IS A PRETTY MINOR
ASK IN THE CITY I SENSE THAT
WE&apos;VE APPROVED SIMILAR FOODS
ALONG THESE LINES HAVE ONE LAST
QUESTION DIDN&apos;T WE APPROVE A
SIMILAR PUDI FOR AVALON IF AM I
REMEMBER AM I NOT REMEMBERING
CORRECTLY NOW I&apos;M JUST THINKING
OF THE SIZE OF THE PARCEL SIZE
THAT WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT TWENTY
FIVE POINT ONE FIVE ACRES AND
WHY WE&apos;RE DEBATING SO LARGE AS
FAR AS RESIDENTIAL AS FAR AS
THE ULTIMATE BUILD OUT OF IT I
THINK THE PARCEL WAS SIMILAR IN
SIZE.
I MEAN THIS IS A RELATIVELY
SMALL PROJECT AT THREE STORIES
OR SO SO THE SCALE IS A LITTLE
BIT DIFFERENT.
&gt;&gt; OK, I APPRECIATE IT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
.
&gt;&gt; ROLL CALL VOTE PLEASE TURN
OFF KALTENBRUNNER HAYNER SOFT
NO THANKS MY DISH YES
COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD SOFT YES
SONG YES COUNTERPROGRAM YES
HEALTH DENHA YES RETAILOR YES
THAT&apos;S MARIAH YES GASMIER AND
ALSO YES ELSMERE BRIGGS YES
SMARMILY YES MOTION CARRIES SEE
WHAT AN AUDIENCE ADDS SECTIONS
EIGHT FIVE THREE ONE TO CHAPTER
ONE TWO FIVE THE HOUSING
CODE OF TITLE EIGHT OF THE
CODE OF THE CITY BANABA MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON SUCCUBI
NO DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE GO
SEE ONE COUNCILOR NELSON THANK
YOU.
I&apos;M GOING TO DISPENSE WITH THE
REALLY LONG EXTENDED
EXPLANATION OF THE LONG JOURNEY
THIS ORDINANCE HAS TRAVELED.
THIS IS COMING TO OUR AGENDA
AFTER A POSTPONEMENT I CHOSE TO
LET IT REMAIN ON THE BAD AGENDA
BECAUSE I THOUGHT IT WAS
IMPORTANT THAT WE HAVE A PUBLIC
CONVERSATION ABOUT THE VARIOUS
STEPS THAT IT HAS TAKEN TO GET
TO THIS POINT RIGHT NOW IT IS
ON OUR AGENDA IN THE FORM THAT
IT WAS IN A COUPLE OF MEETINGS
AGO.
THERE WAS A MEETING OF THE
RENTERS COMMISSION LAST WEEK
AND WE HAD SIGNIFICANT
PERMISSION FROM CITY ATTORNEYS.
THERE WAS A LOT COLLABORATION
TO MAKE IT BETTER SO THE
ORIGINAL VERSION OF THAT IS ON
THE AGENDA IS NOT YET UPDATED
WITH THE IMPROVEMENTS AND THERE
IS A NEED FOR A SUBSTITUTION
AND I WILL PASS IT OFF TO MY
CO COUNCIL LIAISON FROM THE
REENTRIES COMMISSION TO EXPLAIN
THE CHANGES THE DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I MOVE TO AMEND C ONE WITH THE
FINAL PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
CIRCULATED BY THE CITY
ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE EARLIER TODAY
AND ASKED THE CLERK TO PLEASE
CIRCULATE NOW IS THERE A SECOND
SUPPORTED BY COUNCILOR ELLSON
DISCUSSION IS THAT FINALLY THE
BODY THAT REPEAT WE JUST
REPLACED IT.
IT&apos;S AN AMENDED YES IT HAS BEEN
CIRCULATED.
I JUST HAVEN&apos;T SEEN THE YOU&apos;RE
ASKING WHAT IS THE SUBSTITUTED
IS THE SOLUTION IS THE
SUBSTITUTION FRIENDLY TO THE
BODY SENDING IT AROUND?
MAYOR, PERHAPS IT WOULD ALSO BE
HELPFUL FOR ME TO EXPLAIN IT
SIMPLY BECAUSE IT IS DIFFERENT
SURELY THAN THE PUBLIC.
THANKS.
SO WHEN YOUR QUESTION FIRST MET
IN EARLY JULY THEY IMMEDIATELY
GOT TO WORK ON RETURN.
THEY UNDERSTOOD THE URGENCY
SCHEDULED SPECIAL MEETINGS TO
DISCUSS THE TOPIC INDICATED
THEIR SUPPORT FOR THE IDEA TO
US THROUGH A RESOLUTION AND
DRAFT WE&apos;VE PREVIOUSLY RECEIVED
.
THEY DID THIS ACKNOWLEDGING
THAT COMES FROM RENAULT&apos;S AND
POINTED OUT THAT A FULL LEGAL
ANALYSIS IS STILL BEING
COMPLETED AND KNOWING THAT
SEVERAL EDITS STILL NEEDED TO
BE MADE.
AS A RESULT THEY APPOINTED A
SUBGROUP OF THEIR BODY
CONSISTING OF COMMISSIONERS
VERA AND MUCKATY WHO WE HEARD
FROM EARLIER THIS EVENING AND
COMMISSIONERS RIMMEL ROSANN
BOTH ATTORNEYS THEMSELVES TO
FINALIZE THE DRAFT WITH COUNCIL
CITY ATTORNEYS AND STAFF.
FOR THE LAST SEVERAL WEEKS I&apos;VE
BEEN WORKING WITH THE GROUP TO
IMPROVE AND COMPLETE THE DRAFT.
WE&apos;VE REPEATEDLY MET WITH CITY
ATTORNEYS TO STRENGTHEN THE
LANGUAGE AND ENGAGE WITH
JENNIFER HALL AT THE HOUSING
COMMISSION TO ENSURE WE COMPLY
WITH FEDERAL AND STATE
REQUIREMENTS BOTH IN THIS NEW
LANGUAGE AND IN THE EARLY
LEASING ORDINANCE AS WELL.
COMMISSIONERS MET WITH THE
WASHINGTON AREA ASSOCIATION TO
GATHER THEIR FEEDBACK AND
EXCHANGE IDEAS WHICH RESULTED
IN SOME ADDITIONAL EDITS AND
CHAIR FERA, WHO WE HEARD FROM
TONIGHT HAS HAD CONVERSATIONS
WITH RENTERS, INDIVIDUAL
LANDLORDS, COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATIONS, UNIONS AND
HOUSING SERVICE PROVIDERS.
HE ALSO JOINED COUNCIL SONG AND
I AT THIS MONTH&apos;S MEETING
OF THE SUB WHERE THAT BODY
ENDORSED THE PENDING THAT THESE
CHANGES BE ADDED A STAKEHOLDER
ENGAGEMENT AND LANGUAGE UPDATES
WERE HAPPENING.
COMMISSIONER ROUMELL OBSERVED
THAT EVERY TIME WE MET THIS
DRAFT GETS BETTER.
THIS IS HOW THIS PROCESS IS
SUPPOSED TO WORK.
GOOD DEFENSIVE LAWS ARE
CREATED THROUGH THOUGHTFUL
DELIBERATION WITH RELEVANT
STAKEHOLDERS ASKING QUESTIONS
AND SHARING IDEAS.
AND WHILE THIS PROCESS DID ADD
SOME DELAYS ALONG THE WAY, YES,
SOMETIMES GOOD POLICY TAKES
TIME AND EVEN WHEN WE WOULD
LIKE IT TO MOVE MORE QUICKLY,
THIS AMENDMENT THAT I&apos;M ASKING
FOR US TO ADOPT NOW WILL
SUBSTITUTE THE FINAL DRAFT THAT
WAS THE RESULT OF ALL OF THIS
WORK AND ENGAGEMENT.
THE SPECIFIC LANGUAGE
CIRCULATED BY OUR CITY
ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE TODAY IS NOT
SUBSTANTIALLY DIFFERENT FROM
THE PROPOSED LANGUAGE THAT WAS
ADDED TO OUR PACKET BY THE
RENTERS COMMISSION LAST WEEK.
IT IS SLIGHTLY REORDERED AND
REFORMATTED FOR CLARITY NOW
STIPULATES THAT THE ACCEPTANCE
OF A RENEWAL OFFER MUST BE MADE
IN WRITING AND REMOVES THAT
REMOVES THE SEVERABILITY CLAUSE
FROM THE LANGUAGE BECAUSE IT
ALREADY EXISTS GENERALLY IN
CITY CODE AND WOULD BE
DUPLICATIVE.
I ALSO SHARED IT COMMISSIONER
OR WITH CHAIR AND COMMISSIONER
ROUMELL FOR THEIR SIGN OFF
EARLIER TODAY.
&gt;&gt; THEY SUPPORT MOVING IT
FORWARD.
I URGE THAT YOU SUPPORT THIS
AMENDMENT.
COUNCILOR HAYNER, THANKS.
SINCE I SEE YOUR ATTORNEYS HERE
I HAVE A QUESTION THAT I&apos;D LIKE
TO ASK ABOUT THIS IN THE
LANGUAGE OF THIS IN WELL
SUBSECTION TWO AND YOU KNOW AND
B IT SAYS IT TALKS ABOUT THE
TERMS OF SUCCESSIVE LEASE
PERIODS AND I ASSUME THAT WHEN
THE USE OF THAT LANGUAGE TERMS
MEANS NOT ONLY THE DURATION
OF THE LEASE PERIOD BUT THE
COST OF THE RENT, THE UTILITY,
WHATEVER ALL THE WHAT WOULD BE
IN A LEASE.
RIGHT.
SO BUT WE HAVE NOT DISCUSSED
GRABBED OR PROPOSED ANY LIMITS
ON THAT, IS THAT CORRECT?
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S WHATEVER THE
LANDLORD IF THE LANDLORD SAYS
TO A TENANT HERE&apos;S THE HERE&apos;S
YOUR LAWFUL OFFERING OF YOUR
RIGHT TO RENEW.
HERE&apos;S THE SUCCESSIVE LEASE BY
THE WAY YOUR RENT HAD TO GO UP
ONE HUNDRED EIGHTY BUCKS
BECAUSE YOU KNOW I&apos;M PAYING
ANOTHER THREE POINT SEVENTY SIX
MILS THIS YEAR WHATEVER IN
TAXES THAT&apos;S OK.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S FOR THEM TO WORK OUT
AMONG THEMSELVES.
&gt;&gt; YES.
WE CAN&apos;T CONTROL THAT.
SO THIS IN NO WAY WOULD THIS BE
CHARACTERIZED AS A IS A RENT
CONTROL EFFORT BECAUSE YOU
KNOW, IF THE LANDLORD DOESN&apos;T
CONTROL THEIR RENT IT&apos;S RENT
CONTROL.
RIGHT.
SO CORRECT.
&gt;&gt; WE CAN&apos;T CONTROL THE RENT SO
IT WOULD BE ALLOWED UNDER THIS
LEASE FOR A LANDLORD TO SAY
THAT SAY I&apos;M HAPPY TO RENEW
YOUR LEASE BUT IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
TWO HUNDRED BUCKS MORE A MONTH
BECAUSE OF WHATEVER JUST
BECAUSE THAT&apos;S PERFECTLY
ALLOWED THE CAN REJECT THAT IT
DOES THAT ENTER INTO THIS
PENALTY STREAM THAT IS ALSO
LATER ENUMERATED.
I MEAN WHAT IF THEY CAN&apos;T COME
TO TERMS ON THIS OFFERED LEASE
?
&gt;&gt; WHAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S THE SOLUTION?
WELL, THE LANDLORD HAS TO MAKE
A GOOD FAITH OFFER AND
SOMETIMES THAT TERM IS SUBJECT
TO LITIGATION BUT THAT TERM IS
ESTABLISHED AND CASE THIS IS
WHERE QUITE FRANKLY ENFORCEMENT
MIGHT POSE A CHALLENGE BUT
EVERYBODY IN STAFF HAS
ACKNOWLEDGED THAT TO COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; YES.
SO IT&apos;S POSSIBLE IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
POSSIBLE THAT WE&apos;RE IN ADOPTING
THIS WE&apos;RE LEAVING UP TO THE
COURTS TO DECIDE WHAT THAT GOOD
FAITH OFFER IS.
THAT IS POSSIBLE.
OK, THANK YOU.
YOU CAN SEE HOW THIS IS
PROBLEMATIC WITH FOLKS.
I GUESS I WANTED TO GET ANOTHER
THING IN REAL QUICK.
I THINK I&apos;VE GOT A COUPLE
OF SECONDS.
I WISH THERE WAS A BETTER WAY
TO DESCRIBE THE PARTIES TO THE
WHAT WE&apos;RE DEALING WITH HERE
BECAUSE I THINK THAT SOME
PEOPLE FIND TAKE OFFENSE IN
WHAT WOULD BE CONSIDERED I
THINK A COLONIAL LANGUAGE USE
OF THE WORD LANDLORD AND IT
SHOULD BE YOUR PROPERTY OWNER
OR LESS OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M NOT TRYING TO MODIFY
EVERYBODY THE WAY THAT PEOPLE
CHOOSE TO SPEAK BUT I JUST SOME
ABOUT LANDLORD JUST DOESN&apos;T
SOUND RIGHT TO ME, YOU KNOW, I
THINK I THINK IT IT IT IT
AMPLIFIES THAT ANTAGONISTIC
RELATIONSHIP THAT LANDLORDS AND
TENANTS HAVE.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ALL THANK YOU IS THE
MOMENT FINALLY THE BODY DENHA
IT&apos;S TO FURTHER DISCUSS THE
MAIN MOTION COUNCILOR NO DENHA
THANKS MAYOR.
TONIGHT THANKS TO THE HARD WORK
OF OUR RENTERS COMMISSIONER,
OUR CITY STAFF AND CITY
ATTORNEYS, THE ACTIVISM
OF HUNDREDS OF TENANTS AND
COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS AND THE
RESIDENTS WHO HAVE BEEN
INVOLVED IN WORKING WITH US TO
FINALIZE THIS PRODUCT INCLUDING
SOME LANDLORDS THEMSELVES WE
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO ADVANCE
A MEANINGFUL LAW THAT WILL
GRANT TENANTS A RIGHT TO RENEW
THEIR HOUSING LEASE UNLESS THE
LANDLORDS CAN PROVE GOOD CAUSE
NOT TO RENEW TO THOSE COMMUNITY
MEMBERS PARTICULARLY THOSE
HOUSING CAUCUS, CENTRAL STUDENT
GOVERNMENT AND AND TENANTS
RISING WHO BEGAN WORKING ON AND
TALKING ABOUT THIS IDEA WITH
COUNCIL LONG AGO.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR WORK, YOUR
INITIAL DRAFT AND YOUR PATIENCE
AS WE&apos;VE ALREADY HEARD, THIS
POLICY IS RECOMMENDED BY THE
AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION AS ONE
OF THE TEN CENTRAL RESIDENTIAL
EVICTION LAWS THAT GOVERNMENTS
SHOULD IMPLEMENT ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
IT&apos;S ENDORSED BY A NUMBER
OF ENGAGED COMMUNITY
ORGANIZATIONS SUPPORTED BY
HUNDREDS OF TENANTS WHO HAVE
REACHED OUT TO US DIRECTLY OR
THROUGH PETITION AND HAS
SUBSTANTIAL SUPPORT IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND WITH THE MAJORITY
OF ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS RELIANT
ON THE RENTAL MARKET FOR
HOUSING, THIS LAW WILL GIVE OUR
CONSTITUENT CONSTITUENTS MORE
HOUSING SECURITY, ALLEVIATE
FINANCIAL HARDSHIPS ASSOCIATED
WITH UNWARRANTED AND UNWANTED
MOVES AND RELIEVE SOME OF THE
UNSUSTAINABLE
TO SEARCH FOR AND
SECURE NEW HOUSING EACH AND
EVERY YEAR.
LET&apos;S BE CLEAR AS WE JUST
HEARD, THIS IS NOT A PANACEA
FOR EVERY CHALLENGE FACING
RENTERS IN OUR COMMUNITY.
THE RENTERS COMMISSION IS
ALREADY WORKING ON A LIST
OF OTHER PRIORITIES THAT NEED
TO BE ADDRESSED INCLUDING THE
CHALLENGE OF UNRESTRICTED OFTEN
NONREFUNDABLE WAITLIST FEES AND
DUE TO PREEMPTION CONSTRAINTS
AND STATE OF FEDERAL LAW.
THIS ORDINANCE IS STILL LIMITED
IN SCOPE BECAUSE OF THAT AS WE
HAVE SEEN WITH THE LAW, WE
SHOULD EXPECT THAT WHILE MANY
LANDLORDS WILL CONTINUE TO HAVE
GENERALLY POSITIVE, LAWFUL AND
GOOD FAITH RELATIONSHIPS WITH
THEIR TENANTS, THERE WILL ALSO
LIKELY BE SOME BAD ACTORS
ATTEMPTING TO CREATE AND
EXPLOIT LOOPHOLES TO SUBVERT
THE INTENT OF THE ORDINANCE.
WE AS A CITY SHOULD BE PREPARED
TO RIGOROUSLY ENFORCE THE
ORDINANCE AND AS A POLICY BODY
BE PREPARED TO REVISIT AND
STRENGTHEN IT IN THE FUTURE.
DESPITE THAT, I BELIEVE THIS IS
A STRONG FIRST STEP TOWARDS
RECTIFYING AN INCREDIBLY
LOPSIDED POWER IMBALANCE IN
AMERICA&apos;S RENTAL MARKET.
I ENCOURAGE MY COLLEAGUES TO
ADVANCE THIS LONG OVERDUE
PROTECTION TO SECOND READING
AND FINALLY KNOW THAT WE&apos;VE
AMENDED THIS TO THE FINAL
UPDATED LANGUAGE.
BUT THE CLERK PLEASE THAT HE
WAS A CO-SPONSOR.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THEIR
DISCUSSION, COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD
.
I&apos;D LIKE TO BE LISTED AS A
CO-SPONSOR AND I WANT TO THANK
EVERYONE WHO HAS WORKED ON THIS
FOR MANY, MANY MONTHS,
INCLUDING COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON
AND COUNCIL MEMBER RAY DENHA.
&gt;&gt; AND I ALSO WANT TO SAY THAT
WHEN YOU HAVE GOOD POLICY YOU
DON&apos;T HAVE TO HAVE LENGTHY
DISCUSSION AND A LOT
OF DISAGREEMENT AT THE COUNCIL
TABLE.
IT JUST IT&apos;S ALMOST OBVIOUS.
SO IT&apos;S I KNOW IT WAS A LOT
OF WORK BUT YOU GUYS ARE MAKING
IT LOOK EASY.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
HERE.
YEAH, I&apos;M NOT YOU KNOW, I HAD
SOME COMPLAINTS ABOUT THE LACK
OF PROPERTY OWNERS OR LESSORS
BEING, YOU KNOW, PART OF THIS
CONVERSATION.
THOSE CONCERNS STILL EXIST AND
WE DID GET SOME YOU KNOW, A
FAIR AMOUNT OF INFORMATION AND
EMAILS FROM FROM A HANDFUL
OF FOLKS WHO WHO EXPRESSED WHAT
I THINK ARE LEGITIMATE CONCERNS
AND YOU KNOW, WE EVEN FELT THE
THE WRATH OF RENTER ADVOCATES
WHO SUGGEST THAT WE&apos;RE NOT
QUALIFIED TO EVEN CONSIDER THIS
BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T CURRENTLY
RENT.
I MEAN I RENTED FOR 15 YEARS
AND I DO CURRENTLY RENT BUT IN
A COMMERCIAL ASPECT.
SO I HAD 15 YEARS
OF RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNTIL I
GOT GOT IT TOGETHER AND HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO BUY A HOUSE AND
YOU AND NOW I EXPERIENCED
COMMERCIAL RENTAL INTERACTIONS
WITH WITH WITH HER.
SO I DON&apos;T THINK YOU HAVE TO
YOU KNOW THAT REMOVES ALL TRACE
OF EMPATHY.
IT&apos;S NOT LIKE WE&apos;RE NOT NOT
EMPATHETIC WITH YOUR CONCERNS
BUT I DO AND I WILL EXPRESS THE
SAME CONCERNS I EXPRESSED
BEFORE.
I&apos;M GOING TO I&apos;M GOING TO
SUPPORT THIS TONIGHT MOVE INTO
SECOND READING.
SO I&apos;M INTERESTED IN HEARING
WHAT PEOPLE HAVE TO SAY ABOUT
IT BEYOND THE FOLKS WHO ARE
CHAMPIONING IT BECAUSE IT
UNLESS THE COURTS ARE WILLING
TO DEFINE GOOD CAUSE AS AN
INABILITY TO COME TO AN
AGREEMENT ON AN INCREASED RENT
AS COSTS OPERATING COSTS AND
TAXES AND SO ON GO UP OVER THE
YEARS THEN THEY&apos;RE NOT IN
CONTROL OF THEIR OWN RENTS.
IT&apos;S DE FACTO RENT CONTROL AND
RENT CONTROL WILL BE GREAT AND
I KNOW PEOPLE WHO&apos;VE ENJOYED IT
IN BOSTON AND NEW YORK CITY AND
ALL KINDS OF OTHER PLACES WHERE
IT&apos;S ALLOWED.
BUT YOU KNOW, BACK AND AROUND
IT ISN&apos;T THE RIGHT WAY TO GO
ABOUT.
SO DO WE BELIEVE THAT WITH THAT
COUNT AS A GOOD CAUSE IF THEY
COULDN&apos;T COME TO AN AGREEMENT
ON THE TERMS OF A LEASE AT THIS
POINT I THINK WE&apos;RE ENTERING
TERRITORY OF ADVICE AND IF YOU
WANT A CLOSED SESSION, I&apos;M
HAPPY TO GO IN THERE.
BUT I FEEL THAT THIS DISCUSSION
IS MORE LENGTHY THAN I CAN JUST
ANSWER HERE.
&gt;&gt; OK, I SEE MR. RIZA&apos;S HEAD ON
THE SCREEN NOW SO I KNOW WE&apos;RE
GETTING INTO SOMETHING HERE SO
I DON&apos;T KNOW I GUESS THAT I
WILL WITHDRAW THAT QUESTION BUT
YOU CAN SEE WHERE MY CONCERNS
LIE IN THIS AREA.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILMAN IYER, THANK YOU.
I&apos;M REALLY PLEASED TO SUPPORT
THIS TONIGHT.
I&apos;D LOVE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR PLEASE.
AND JUST MY THANKS TO TO THOSE
WHO HAVE WORKED SO HARD TO
BRING US FORWARD ESPECIALLY
WANT TO GIVE A LITTLE KUDOS TO
COUNCIL MEMBER OF A DENHA WHO&apos;S
BEEN WORKING REALLY HARD IN THE
WORKING GROUPS.
I KNOW THAT THAT REALLY HAVE
TRIED TO PUSH THIS OVER THE
FINISH LINE SO THAT IT COULD
COME TO US AS QUICKLY AS
POSSIBLE.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR ALL
YOUR WORK AND I&apos;M HAPPY TO
SUPPORT COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
YEAH, I&apos;LL BE A GRAIN COUNCIL
MEMBER IA AND AND GRISWOLD&apos;S
STATEMENTS LIKE THAT BE ADDED
AS A CO-SPONSOR AS WELL BUT
MOSTLY APPRECIATE THE WORK
OF COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO&apos;VE BEEN
WORKING ON THIS AND THE RENTERS
COMMISSION AND WHO&apos;S BEEN
ADVOCATING FOR FOR OVER A YEAR
FOR THIS.
I THINK THIS POINTS TO HOW
IMPORTANT THE ROLE OF OUR
COMMISSIONS ARE AND I&apos;M REALLY
EXCITED TO SEE RENTERS
COMMISSION KICK OFF WITH THIS
REALLY IMPORTANT PIECE
OF LEGISLATION AND I&apos;M EXCITED
TO SEE THAT MOVE FORWARD.
OTHER PIECES WE KNOW THIS IS
THAT THIS IS JUST ONE PIECE
OF THE PUZZLE IN TERMS
OF IMPROVING THE RENTAL
ENVIRONMENT IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
ONE THING THAT I WOULD ASK FOR
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO BE
THINKING ABOUT WE OBVIOUSLY
KNOW THAT WE HAVE A LITTLE BIT
OF A GAP IN TERMS OF OUR
STAFFING TO BE ABLE TO ADDRESS
THIS OUR LEAGUE OFFICES WERE
DOING THE HEAVY LIFTING ON THIS
BUT MOVING FORWARD WE&apos;RE GOING
TO NEED TO THINK ABOUT HOW
ENFORCEMENT OCCURS AND
EVALUATION OF THIS AND ALL
OF THE OTHER WORK THAT THAT OUR
RENTERS COMMISSION IS GOING TO
BE WORKING ON.
AND SO IN OUR NEXT BUDGET CYCLE
THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT I&apos;LL I&apos;LL
BE LOOKING AT AND AND OTHERS
WILL BE HAVING CONVERSATIONS
AROUND AS WELL.
BRITISH I WOULD LIKE TO BE
ADDED AS CO-SPONSORS WILL AND I
AM PLEASED TO SEE THE
DELIBERATIVE APPROACH THAT THE
RENTERS COMMISSION NEWLY
ESTABLISHED AND MAKING GREAT
STRIDES TOWARDS GREATER EQUITY
IN THE CITY HAS ACHIEVED.
COUNCILMAN ELSOM, THANK YOU.
MY REMARKS ARE SORT
OF PIGGYBACKING OFF WHAT
COUNCIL MEMBER BRAKE&apos;S
MENTIONED ON SOME OF THE BIGGER
CHALLENGES THAT WE ENCOUNTERED
WITH THE EARLY LEASING
ORDINANCE WAS A LACK OF PUBLIC
AWARENESS AROUND IT, A REALLY
CHALLENGING SITUATION AROUND
ENFORCEMENT AND ONE OF THE
ADVANTAGES THAT THIS ORDINANCE
WILL HAVE WELL, I MEAN IT&apos;S
GOING TO COMPLIMENT THE EARLY
LEASING ORDINANCE ASSISTANT
ENFORCEMENT OF THAT I&apos;M SURE.
BUT ONE OF THE ADVANTAGES THAT
THIS ORDINANCE HAS THIS YEAR IS
WE HAVE THE BENEFIT OF THE
RENTERS COMMISSION THAT CAN BE
A DELIBERATIVE BODY DISCUSSING
WHATEVER CHALLENGES COME UP.
I THAT ALL OF US ARE SITTING AT
THIS TABLE.
WE&apos;RE RECEIVING A NUMBER
OF EMAILS IN THE LAST YEAR
ABOUT ALL OF THE PROBLEMS
RELATED TO THE EARLY LEASING
ORDINANCE AND TRYING TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT A VIOLATION
LOOKED LIKE, WHAT ENFORCEMENT
COULD LOOK LIKE.
OPPORTUNITIES LOOKING AHEAD ARE
REALLY ALSO INVITING A WHOLE
LOT OF WORK ON THE SIDE OF CITY
HALL AND MAKING SURE THAT
TENANTS ACTUALLY BENEFIT FROM
HIS ORDINANCE.
SO YEAH, THERE&apos;S A LOT OF A LOT
OF WORK AHEAD OF US IN MAKING
SURE THAT THIS ORDINANCE WORKS.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
SO TO FOLLOWING UP WITH THAT
STATEMENT.
ONE OF THE EARLY WORRIES I HAD
WAS IN CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
WASHINGTON HOUSING ALLIANCE WAS
A REFLECTION ON YELLOW AND HOW
THEY ACTUALLY AS A NONPROFIT
HAD TO EXPEND RESOURCES
EDUCATING OUR COMMUNITY ABOUT
YELLOW SURPRISING FOLKS DON&apos;T
COME TO OUR WEBSITE.
I HOPE THAT THAT&apos;S A
CONSIDERATION AS WE ROLL THIS
OUT IN HELPING THE COMMUNITY
UNDERSTAND THE REAL COSTS IN
NOT ONLY JUST ENFORCING IT BUT
GETTING THE WORD OUT.
WHY NOT HOUSING ALLOWANCE?
HOW DO YOU CREATE FLIERS,
EDUCATE NEW PROPERTY OWNER
PROPERTY OWNERS, PROPERTY
MANAGERS WHO WEREN&apos;T MADE AWARE
OF IT BY THE PROPERTY OWNERS
AND I HOPE THAT WE CAN
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THAT THAT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT CITY STAFF
SHOULD BE ABLE TO TAKE ON IN
NOT JUST ON THE ENFORCEMENT BUT
JUST INFORMING FOLKS THAT THESE
ARE THE CHANGES THAT I WANT TO
THANK COUNCIL MEMBERS NELSON OR
DENHA FOR THIS WORK.
THIS WORK IS REALLY TIMELY ON I
HAD A CALL THIS MORNING WITH
ALPHA HOUSE WARD BOARD MEMBERS.
WE HAVE A NUMBER OF FAMILIES
WHO ARE LIVING IN THEIR CARS
FOR FOLKS WHO MIGHT RECALL IF
YOU FOLLOW THE COVID EMERGENCY
RENTAL ASSISTANCE FUNDING THE
FEDERAL FUNDING THAT THAT ENDED
BACK IN JUNE.
SO AT THE COUNTY LEVEL, EVEN
THOUGH WE HAVE 4000 HOUSEHOLDS
RECEIVING RENTAL ASSISTANCE, WE
HAVE 500 CASES IN OUR EVICTION
COURT SO THIS IS A IT&apos;S A VERY
DIFFICULT TIME FOR RENTERS IN
OUR COMMUNITY AT LARGE NOT ONLY
IN ANN ARBOR BUT IN THE COUNTY.
AND I&apos;VE HAD SOME REALLY
INTERESTING CHATS WITH OTHER
OFFICIALS IN OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES WHO ARE REALLY
EXCITED FOR THIS WORK.
SO KUDOS TO YOU BOTH FOR HAVING
FOR DEMONSTRATING HOW WE CAN
CARE FOR THE COMMUNITY AND LEAD
SOME COME INTO SOME INTERESTING
PARTNERSHIPS WITH SOCIAL
SERVICE AGENCIES AND HOPEFULLY
A BETTER UNDERSTANDING WHAT CAN
BE DONE WITH LANDLORDS AND
RENTERS IF YOU DON&apos;T MIND AS AN
HSA BE LIAISON.
I&apos;D LIKE TO BE ALSO BE ADDED AS
A CO-SPONSOR AND I I THANK YOU
BOTH FOR YOUR FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL ALLOWING
THANK BASED ON THE NUMBER
OF CO-SPONSORS I CAN IMAGINE
THIS BILL HAS ITS SECOND
READING.
I WILL BE SUPPORTING YOU HERE
TONIGHT.
MY TO THANK YOU IS INTO IT&apos;S
NOT A SILVER BULLET.
THERE ARE MANY DOTCOM LOOPHOLES
BUT AREAS THAT CAN BE EXPLOITED
ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU HAVE THE
POWER, THE IMBALANCE OF POWER
BETWEEN LEASER AND WE SEE MORE
USUALLY GOT BIGGER STACKS AND
STACKS CAN PUSH AROUND LITTLE
TAX AND IN THIS CASE YOU REALLY
NEED TWO MONTHS RENT IN ORDER
TO MAKE YOUR PROBLEM GO
AWAY IF
THAT&apos;S HOW YOU PERCEIVE IT.
THERE IS YOU KNOW, PERHAPS YOU
LIKE ANY CHANGE UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES, THE AMBIGUITY
OF GOOD FAITH, GOOD CAUSE WHO
DECIDES THAT?
WELL, FROM WHAT I UNDERSTAND
OF THE COURT SYSTEM, I&apos;M NOT
SURE PEOPLE CAN REALLY AFFORD
THEIR THEIR RENT AND I&apos;M GOING
TO BE FOR AN ATTORNEY OR BE
ABLE TO REPRESENT THEMSELVES IN
A WAY SOMEBODY WHO OWNS A LOT
OF ASSETS CAN HIRE SOMEONE TO
REPRESENT THEIR INTERESTS.
BUT I DO APPRECIATE THE WORK
THAT&apos;S GONE INTO THIS.
I KNOW IT&apos;S NOT EASY WHEN
YOU&apos;RE DEALING WITH SOMETHING
LIKE THIS.
THIS IS NOT, UH, SOME OF THE
OTHER CUPCAKE ORDINANCES THAT
WE PASS OR RESOLUTIONS THIS IS
A VERY THORNY, DIFFICULT ONE.
AGAIN, IT&apos;S FIRST READING ALL
THESE CORONATE.
I&apos;LL BE INTERESTED TO HEAR WHAT
THE OTHER SHAREHOLDERS AND
STAKEHOLDER HAVE TO SAY IN THE
TIME BETWEEN NOW AND THEN.
SO THANK FOR THE DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; WELL, FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED DC ONE RESOLUTION
OF KILLER MCKENNA TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER REGINA SUNG BY
COUNCILMAN BRIGGS DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC ONE ON FAVOR
POSTED IT&apos;S PROVED WITH ELEVEN
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT THUS
ALL VOTING IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THAT SATISFIED THE SEVEN
REQUIREMENT DC TWO RESOLUTION
TO ACCEPT AN EASEMENT
APPROPRIATE FORTY SEVEN
THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED TEN
DOLLARS FROM THE GENERAL FUND
AND APPROVE REIMBURSEMENT FOR
ROAD MAINTENANCE COST OF THE
DEVAR HOT TO THE DVORIN ON PARK
ASSOCIATION MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER SECOND BY COUNT THE
MEMBER OF OUR DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC TO ON IN FAVOR POST IT IS
APPROVED WITH ELEVEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTED IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE THE SATISFYING
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT DC THREE
RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT AN
APPROPRIATE MICHIGAN STRATEGIC
FUNDS AND APPROVED CERTIFIED
LOCAL GOVERNMENT GRANT
AGREEMENT FOR THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT RENAISSANCE LEVEL
SURVEY UPDATE THE AMOUNT
OF FORTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC THREE
COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON.
&gt;&gt; I HAD TO LOOK AT THIS REALLY
CLOSELY.
THERE WAS AN EXPLANATION ABOUT
IT BEING REVISED.
I&apos;M JUST WONDERING IF YOU COULD
OFFER AN EXPLANATION OF THIS
SIGNIFY THE REVISION IS THERE
SOMEONE ON STAFF ABLE TO ANSWER
THE QUESTION
?
MR. TONY
&gt;&gt; OH, I DON&apos;T KNOW DUPATTA IS
AVAILABLE IN ITS INTEREST.
I DON&apos;T SEE MISS THATCHER OR
MR. DELACOURT ON THE LINE.
IT SAYS IN THE INTRO TO THE
RESOLUTION SUBMITTED DID NOT
CONTAIN REQUIRED LANGUAGE
NECESSARY TO APPROPRIATE THE
FUNDS.
&gt;&gt; YES, I APPRECIATE THAT.
I LOOKED AT IT CLOSELY AND THE
THERE WAS A DIFFERENCE ON WHERE
IT WAS GOING INTO THE BUDGET.
YEAH.
AND I GUESS I WAS JUST CURIOUS
FOR AN EXPLANATION ABOUT WHAT
THE DIFFERENCE WAS IN THOSE
SECTIONS OF THE BUDGET.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S THE ORIGINAL VERSION
HAD IT THE FUNDS RECEIVED INTO
THE GENERAL PLANNING FUND AND
NOW IT&apos;S BEEN REVISED SO THAT
THOSE MONIES ARE APPROPRIATED
TO THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT
BUDGET WITHIN THE MAJOR GRANTS
PROGRAMS FUND
.
OK, WELL I GUESS IF THERE&apos;S
NOBODY TO ANSWER THAT QUESTION
FOR THE DISCUSSION OR A FAVOR
POST THERE&apos;S PROVE THE LOVE
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS
SATISFYING THE VOTE REQUIREMENT
DC FOR RESOLUTION TO RESTRICT
TURNS ON RED DOWNTOWN MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISHED
DISCUSSION PIECE OF DC FOR
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
YEAH I&apos;M GOING TO BE MOVING TO
POSTPONE THIS RESOLUTION
TONIGHT.
PERHAPS FITTINGLY WE NEED TO
ADDRESS THE ISSUE OF ANDAT AND
OUR ABILITY TO OUR LACK
OF LOCAL CONTROL OF OUR ROADS
IN THE DOWNTOWN SO WELL THIS
HAS BEEN SOMETHING THAT HAS
BEEN PASSED BY TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSIONER NAZLI IN AUGUST
AND THOSE QUESTIONS RECENTLY
CAME UP.
I THINK WE JUST NEED A COUPLE
MORE WEEKS LEGAL DEPARTMENT TO
DO A LITTLE BIT ADDITIONAL LOOK
AT THIS AND THERE MAY BE SOME
ADDITIONAL LANGUAGE THAT WE
ADDED TO THE RESOLUTION BEFORE
WE ADOPT IT.
I CAN MAYBE SAVE THE
DESCRIPTION FOR SAKE OF TIME
TILL THE NEXT NEXT MEETING TOO.
&gt;&gt; SO WHEN WOULD YOU LIKE THE
POSTPONEMENT?
WHEN YOU MOVE IT?
&gt;&gt; MY UNDERSTANDING IS THE NEXT
MEETING WOULD BE FINE.
IS THAT CORRECT?
THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
OUR NEXT MEETING SHOULD BE FINE
.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
EXCELLENT.
IS THERE A SECOND ON THE
POSTPONEMENT SECOND BY FOR OUR
DISCUSSION OF POSTPONEMENT
CUSTOMER GRISWOLD OH WHEN THIS
COMES BACK IT WOULD BE HELPFUL
TO HAVE AN EDUCATION AND
ENFORCEMENT COMPONENT AS WELL
AS A STATEMENT FROM THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT ON ON HOW THIS WILL
BE ENFORCED.
&gt;&gt; AND LASTLY EQUITY I&apos;M NOT
OPPOSED TO THIS.
I THINK IT&apos;S MUCH MORE
COMPLICATED THAN THE RESOLUTION
THAT WE HAVE AND I&apos;M LOOKING AT
IN OTHER COUNCIL MEMBERS MAY
WANT TO LOOK AT WHAT THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA HAS BEEN
DOING WITH REGARD TO
IDENTIFYING INTERSECTIONS FOR
NO RIGHT TURN ON RED AND SO
EQUITY IN TERMS OF IF YOU&apos;RE A
PROFESSIONAL WORKER YOU DON&apos;T
HAVE A TIME CLOCK SO YOU&apos;RE NOT
UNDER PRESSURE TO GET TO WORK
AND SO DOES THIS PUT AN
UNNECESSARY BURDEN ON OUR
EMPLOYEES WHO WHO ARE ON A TIME
CLOCK?
&gt;&gt; I CAN&apos;T ANSWER THAT
QUESTION, BUT I I THINK THAT
EVERYTHING WE DO AS IS A
COUNCIL NEEDS TO HAVE AN EQUITY
EVALUATION.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I&apos;M ASKING FOR THANK
YOU, COUNCILOR HAYNER ON THE
POSTPONEMENT.
YEAH, I ACTUALLY I MEAN I&apos;M
SORRY WE&apos;RE POSTPONING I WAS
LOOKING FORWARD TO TALKING
ABOUT THIS TONIGHT.
I DON&apos;T SUPPORT THE ANY KIND
OF BLANKET RESTRICTION ON THIS
.
OUR TRAFFIC IS MUCH MORE NEEDS
TO BE MUCH MORE FINESSED THAN
THAT.
AND SO I MEAN I GUESS I&apos;LL
SUPPORT A POSTPONEMENT.
WE GET TO TALK ABOUT IT NEXT
WEEK.
BUT I THINK THERE&apos;S SOME ODD
THINGS IN HERE.
I THINK THE PUBLIC WOULD DO
WELL TO TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT&apos;S
WHAT&apos;S GOING ON HERE.
I HAVE NO DOUBT IT WILL PASS
LIKE EVERYTHING ELSE.
BUT IT&apos;S I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S A
GOOD IDEA AND I DON&apos;T THINK IT
I DON&apos;T THINK THERE HAS BEEN
ENOUGH ANALYSIS OF HOW VARIOUS
INTERSECTIONS IN OUR COMMUNITY
FUNCTION THAT WE CAN SAY HEY,
NO NO THIS NO THAT I MEAN WE
GOT WE GOT SOME INTERSECTIONS
THAT ARE JUST NOTHING BUT CARS
SITTING.
THEY&apos;RE STICKING IT UP IDLING
NEXT TO DINERS NEXT JUST IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S A MESS AND SO, YOU KNOW,
WITHOUT LOOKING AT SCRAMBLES
AND OTHER WAYS TO ALLEVIATE THE
PEDESTRIAN AND BICYCLIST THAT
ARE THE SUPPOSED OBJECT OF THIS
SAFETY AT THESE INTERSECTIONS
FOR LACK OF A BETTER WORD OR IN
DANGER, I MEAN I WOULD THINK A
BUS SWEEPING A RIGHT RIGHT ON
RED AROUND THE POSTPONEMENT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, WELL I MEAN OK, I&apos;M
GOING TO SAY NO I&apos;D LIKE TO
TALK ABOUT IT TONIGHT.
YOU BRING THIS STUFF UP.
LET&apos;S TALK ABOUT IT.
COUNCILOR BRIGGS, ON THE
POSTPONEMENT JUST WANTED TO ADD
SINCE A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS HAD
COME UP, THERE WAS A FULL
DISCUSSION AT TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION THAT INVOLVED THE
ENGAGEMENT OF OUR POLICE
DEPARTMENT WHICH HAS INDICATED
THAT THIS WOULD BEGIN WITH AN
EDUCATION CAMPAIGN AND THEN
MOVE TOWARDS ENFORCEMENT AFTER
A PERIOD OF TIME.
THIS EXCLUDES TRANSIT FROM OR
WOULD MAKE EXCEPTIONS FOR
TRANSIT ATAH WAS INVOLVED IN
THE DEVELOPMENT OF THIS AS WELL
AS OUR ENGINEERING AND PLANNING
TRANSPORTATION AND STAFF AND WE
CAN SAVE THE REST OF THE
DISCUSSION FOR THE NEXT
MEETING.
&gt;&gt; COUNSELOR, WHILE WE ON THE
POSTPONEMENT.
WELL, SEE THE TRAILERS EXCITING
.
THIS IS GOING TO BE AN EXCITING
MEETING WHEN WE TALK ABOUT THIS
.
I KNOW I HAVE SOME THINGS TO
SAY A LOT HAS BEEN TOUCHED ON
ALREADY AND I THINK THE SAME
WAY I WOULD HAVE EXPANDED ON IT
BUT YEAH, I THINK EQUITY IS A
HUGE ISSUE AND I THINK, YOU
KNOW, ENFORCEMENT BEING UP HERE
AND I THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT&apos;S A
TOOL THAT I DON&apos;T THINK IS VERY
EFFECTIVE AND I THINK IT IS
INEQUITABLE.
SO IF YOU&apos;RE LOOKING FOR
ENFORCEMENT TYPICALLY THAT&apos;S
WHAT ENDS UP HAPPENING.
BUT I&apos;LL SAVE THE REST FOR TWO
WEEKS FOR THE DISCUSSION THE
POSTPONEMENT COUNCILPERSON I&apos;M
IN SUPPORT OF THE POSTPONEMENT
AS CO-SPONSOR THE BIG
MOTIVATION TO BECOME A SPONSOR
WAS THAT THIS WORK WOULD HAVE
REDUCED CRASHES OR WE
UNDERSTAND THAT CRASHES ARE
HAVE 50 PERCENT OF CRASHES ARE
DUE TO NOT YIELDING.
SO IF WE CAN GET MORE DATA ON
THE SCENARIOS THEN I&apos;D BE I
THINK IT WOULD REALLY BENEFIT
OUR DISCUSSION NEXT MONTH.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU, COUNCILOR
GRISWOLD.
YEAH, I&apos;D LIKE TO SECOND THAT.
SO DURING THE POSTPONEMENT
PERIOD IF WE CAN GET MORE
SPECIFIC DATA THEN JUST HALF
OF ALL CRASHES WERE A PERSON
WALKING OR BIKING.
THEY WERE KILLED OR SERIOUSLY
INJURED
OR INVOLVED A DRIVER
FAILING TO YIELD IF WE COULD
GET INFORMATION ON CARS MAKING
A RIGHT HAND TURN CARS FAILING
TO YIELD WHEN THEY WERE MAKING
A RIGHT HAND TURN AND ALSO IN
SOME CASES UNDER MICHIGAN LAW
THAT TURNS ARE ALLOWED.
AND SO IF WE COULD GET SOME
MORE SPECIFIC CRASH DATA THAT
WOULD BE GREAT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCILOR.
ER THANK YOU.
WITH ALL THESE NEW REQUESTS I&apos;M
WONDERING IF POSTPONING JUST TO
THE NEXT MEETING IS POSSIBLE OR
IF WE MIGHT NEED TO GIVE THEM A
COUPLE OF MONTHS TO THANK YOU
FOR BRINGING THAT UP BECAUSE I
WAS WHEN I SAID TWO WEEKS I WAS
LOOKING AT IT FROM A LEGAL
ANALYSIS.
FRANKLY I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW MUCH
WORK AND WILL BE TOGETHER THE
DATA AND LOOK AT IT SORT
OF MORE HOLISTICALLY.
SO COULD I PLEASE RESERVE THE
RIGHT TO DISCUSS THIS WITH
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF AND GET
BACK ON REALISTIC TIMING THAT
SEEMS MR DONEE WELL IT HAS TO
WELL IF POSTPONED TO A DATE
CERTAIN IT WILL COME BACK ON A
DATE CERTAIN WITHOUT REGARD TO
ITS RUDISILL MY SUGGESTION
WOULD BE TO POSTPONE BY A MONTH
MR TONY STRESS THAT A COURT MR
MILLER THE ADDITIONAL REQUESTS
THAT HAVE BEEN MADE THIS
EVENING WE WOULD JUST BE
SPECULATING ON COULD WE GET IT
ALL DONE IN TWO WEEKS?
I DON&apos;T BELIEVE THAT WE COULD
AND I CAN&apos;T SWEAR THAT A MONTH
IS GOOD ENOUGH BUT WE CERTAINLY
CAN WORK ON TRYING TO MAKE SURE
WE HAVE EVERYTHING THE PEOPLE
ARE ASKING FOR.
PERHAPS WE COULD ROLL WITH A
MONTH AND IF IF HE CAN&apos;T HE
CAN&apos;T.
&gt;&gt; IF NOTCHING UP
I&apos;D LIKE TO
SPEAK TO THE PERSON THAT WE DO
WELL YOU WANT TO KEEP FOR THEM
YOU WANT TO BE ON THE QUEUE FOR
THE POSTPONEMENT.
&gt;&gt; YOU&apos;RE ON THE QUEUE FOR THE
POSTPONEMENT.
&gt;&gt; SORRY CUSTOMER AGAIN.
YEAH I MEAN I THINK THAT YOU
KNOW THE CONVERSATION WELL I
APPRECIATE THAT THE CONCERNS
THE CONVERSATION THAT
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSIONER
FROM CUSTOMER REPORT BACK, YOU
KNOW, SUGGEST THAT THAT THEY
HAVE THOUGHT THIS THROUGH
FAIRLY CLEARLY THAT THE ISSUE
REALLY SEEMS TO BE, YOU KNOW,
NOT YOU KNOW IS IT IS IT BEST
PRACTICE IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA
TO NOT YOU KNOW, TO TO ALWAYS
HAVE NO TURN ON RED?
I THINK WE RECEIVED A FAIRLY
INFORMED DECISION FROM THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION THAT
WORKED WITH, YOU KNOW, A LOT
OF DIFFERENT STAKEHOLDERS
INCLUDING OUR EXPERTS ON STAFF.
SO I DON&apos;T IF IF THE ONLY ISSUE
THAT WAS BROUGHT UP FROM STAFF
BEFORE WAS TO BRING THIS
FORWARD, I THINK, YOU KNOW, TWO
WEEKS OR WHATEVER IT IS YOUR
FIRST MEETING IN OCTOBER SEEMS
LIKE SUFFICIENT TIME TO GET
THOSE ANSWERS.
WE CAN ALWAYS ASK FOR MORE AND
DELAY AND DELAY BUT I THIS IS
THIS IS AN ISSUE THAT&apos;S BEEN
BROUGHT UP SO MANY TIMES IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND I DON&apos;T SEE THE
NEED TO JUST DELAY IT
UNNECESSARILY.
I THINK IT REALLY IS TIME THAT
WE TRY TO MOVE FORWARD BECAUSE
BECAUSE WE&apos;VE HAD MANY SPEAKERS
COME TO COUNCIL THEMSELVES TO
TALKING ABOUT TERMS WITH WITH
ACCIDENTS OR OR NEAR MISSES
FROM YOU KNOW, THE LACK OF NO
TURN ON ROAD AND AND PART
OF THE REASON WHY I YOU KNOW,
WAS SO PLEASED TO HEAR THAT IT
WAS MOVING FORWARD WHAT BECAUSE
I APPROACHED COUNCILOR
BERGSTEIN WHAT IS THIS COMING
FORWARD?
&gt;&gt; WE NEED TO YOU KNOW, I&apos;D
REALLY LIKE TO SEE US GET THIS
DONE.
SO I I THINK THE FIRST MEETING
IN OCTOBER YOU KNOW, YOU CAN DO
LAND, LAND, LAND ON AND ON AND
ON BUT I&apos;D REALLY LIKE TO SEE
THIS GO FOR THE DISCUSSION THE
POSTPONEMENT THE FIRST MEETING
OCTOBER COUNCILOR RAMAHI WOULD
THIS WILL BE PASSED YOU KNOW
WHETHER IT&apos;S IN OCTOBER OR
NOVEMBER OR DECEMBER IS THE
ONLY QUESTION.
IT WOULD BE NICE TO HAVE THE
DELIBERATE IN THE INFORMATION
AND THE DATA TO MAKE THE BEST
INFORMED DECISION WHEN DOES
WHEN IT DOES GET PAST I DO
SUPPORT THIS BUT I DO THINK
HAVING A BLANKET RESTRICTION
POSES A SOLUTION THAT IS LESS
THAN EQUITABLE AND LESS THAN
SENSIBLE AND TO HAVE
INFORMATION AS TO WHERE THESE
ISSUES ARE OCCURRING, WHAT ARE
THE AREAS AND WHAT TIME OF DAY
I MEAN DO YOU REALLY NEED TO
HAVE NO TURN ON RED AT FOUR IN
THE MORNING WHILE THERE&apos;S
NOBODY OUT ON THE STREET?
I MEAN ARE WE GOING TO HAVE
DIFFERENT TIMES AND IS GOING TO
BE ENFORCED THINGS LIKE THAT?
THERE WAS NO MAP GIVEN AND
THERE WASN&apos;T SOME JUST BROAD
PARAMETERS OF THE STREETS.
IT WOULD BE NICE TO SEE HOW
MANY CORNERS, HOW MANY STOPS,
WHAT AREA IS GOING TO BE
IMPACTED.
WE HAD A SPEAKER TONIGHT BRING
UP A VERY GOOD POINT WE DO ON
THE STREETS IN ANN ARBOR AS IS
THE UNIVERSITY IS NOT WISE IN
THE UNIVERSITY AREAS INCLUDED
IN THIS WHERE YOU HAVE THE MOST
PEDESTRIAN CONFLICT ISSUES
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT&apos;S OK TO HAVE
CONVERSATIONS LIKE THIS SO WE
CAN BETTER CRAFT ORDINANCES
THAT MAKE SENSE THAT PEOPLE
WOULD ADHERE TO AND THAT GET
ENFORCED EQUITABLY AND UM
BECAUSE PEOPLE FAITH IN THEIR
GOVERNMENT OR THE DISCUSSION
THE POSTPONEMENT TO THE FIRST
MEETING OF OCTOBER ROLL VOTE
PLEASE STARTING WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER HINTER HAYNER NO COUNCIL
MEMBER DIS YES NELSA AS WELL
YES.
COUNCIL MURSAU YES.
COUNCILOR GRANT YES.
COUNCILOR DENHA YES.
MARY TYLER YES.
CUSTOMER AH YES COUNCILOR
NELSON.
YES THAT&apos;S OUR BRIGS.
YES ELSEWHERE RIMAWI YES
WASHINGTON DC FIVE RESOLUTION
REQUIREMENT AT CITY COUNCIL
MEETINGS CONSIST WITH CDC
GUIDANCE MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
OUR SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC COUNCIL FOR IA SURE.
JUST BY WAY OF INTRODUCTION AND
EXPLANATION THAT THE CDC
OF COURSE GOSH IT WAS SEVERAL
WEEKS BACK NOW MADE QUITE
SUBSTANTIAL REVISIONS TO ITS
COVID GUIDELINES AND IT BECAME
CLEAR THAT OUR COUNCIL POLICY
WAS OUT OF STEP WITH THE CDC
GUIDELINES ONCE THEY HAVE MADE
THOSE CHANGES.
SO WE HAD A DISCUSSION ABOUT IT
AT THE ADMIN COMMITTEE AT OUR
MOST RECENT MEETING AND IT WAS
THE CONSENSUS THAT WE BRING
THIS RESOLUTION FORWARD THAT
REALIGNS WITH THE CDC AND KEEPS
US IN ALIGNMENT GOING FORWARD
FOR THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; GRANT, THANK YOU.
THERE IS A QUESTION TODAY I
WOULD JUST LIKE TO POINT OUT
THAT UNDER THIS RULE THAT ALL
OF US AT THE TABLE WOULD STILL
BE WEARING MASKS BECAUSE WE&apos;RE
AT LEVEL HIGH SO IT IS STRICTER
THAN WHAT OUR SCHOOLS ARE
DOING.
FOR EXAMPLE, WHERE WHERE IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S RECOMMENDED OR STRONGLY
RECOMMENDED.
BUT IF YOU KNOW SO SO I THINK
THIS POLICY REALLY GETS TO YOU
A HAPPY MEDIUM AND IS STRONGER
AND ALLOWS US TO STILL
DEMONSTRATE BEST PRACTICES BUT
AT THE SAME TIME RECOGNIZES
THAT THAT IS I THINK IT&apos;S JUST
IT&apos;S JUST CLEAR IN TERMS OF CDC
GUIDELINES WE ALSO WANT IT TO
BE A LITTLE MORE IN LINE WITH
WHAT&apos;S HAPPENING AT THE CITY
BECAUSE I THINK THAT WAS A
POINT OF CONFUSION THAT THAT
CITY STAFF WERE DOING THING AND
AND COUNCIL WAS DOING ANOTHER.
SO YOU&apos;RE STILL A LITTLE BIT
STRICTER THAN THE UN STAFF BUT
I THINK IT GETS US GETS US TO A
PLACE AND AND I YOU KNOW AND
OF COURSE THE PUBLIC CAN STILL
ALWAYS PARTICIPATE REMOTELY AND
I&apos;M GLAD TO SEE THAT WE&apos;VE BEEN
ABLE TO MAKE THAT REALLY
SEAMLESS TRANSITION FOR BOTH
STAFF AND THE PUBLIC COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
&gt;&gt; WELL, I&apos;M WONDERING IF WE
CAN ADD OR AS CLOSE TO
ACKNOWLEDGE OUR WORKING
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
NOT THAT IT NEEDS TO BE IN A
RESOLVED CLAUSE, BUT I THINK
THE WASHTENAW COUNTY HEALTH
DEPARTMENT HAS BEEN VERY
IMPORTANT IN PROVIDING GUIDANCE
FOR US.
IS IS THAT THE CASE?
MAYBE STAFF CAN CAN ANSWER THAT
.
DO YOU HAVE A PROPOSED PROPOSED
AMENDMENT LANGUAGE?
OH, WHEREAS THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT HAS
BEEN VERY HAS I DON&apos;T KNOW HAS
BEEN VERY SUPPORTIVE AND WE
RECOGNIZE THEIR EXPERTIZE IN
THIS AREA IF IF NOT I CAN WAIT
AND ACKNOWLEDGE THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT IN A
SEPARATE RESOLUTION BUT I JUST
THOUGHT THAT WE WERE WORKING
CLOSELY WITH THE HEALTH
DEPARTMENT FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCILOR AND ALSO I I WORK IN
AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE WE ARE
CLOSELY FOLLOWING GUIDELINES
LIKE THE CDC AND I THIS IS THIS
THIS AGENDA ITEM IS ACTUALLY A
LITTLE BIT MISLEADING.
I GOT A I GOT AN EMAIL I&apos;M NOT
INTENTIONALLY MISLEADING BUT I
THINK IT&apos;S EASILY CONFUSED BY
PEOPLE READING IT BECAUSE WHEN
YOU SEE FOLLOWING CDC
GUIDELINES IT IS IT SORT
OF GIVES THE IMPLICATION
THAT
WE ARE ENFORCING HIGHER
STANDARDS WHEN ACTUALLY THIS IS
LOOKING AHEAD TO IMPOSING LOWER
STANDARDS.
THE CDC DOES ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
LOCAL MUNICIPALITIES HAVE
DISCRETION AND CONTINUE TO HAVE
DISCRETION TO IMPOSE
REQUIREMENTS THAT ARE HIGHER
THAN REQUIREMENTS.
&gt;&gt; I I&apos;M NOT GOING TO BE ABLE
TO SUPPORT THIS BECAUSE WELL
FIRST OF ALL, I THINK IT&apos;S
POORLY TIMED SINCE THE
COMMUNITY INFECTION RATES ARE
SO HIGH RIGHT NOW.
I THINK A CALLER THAT WE HAD
EARLIER RAISED A POINT THAT,
YOU KNOW, THE CDC GUIDELINES
GOING DOWN OR RELAXING ARE ARE
NOT AH AND LOOKING AT THE
REALITY IN FRONT OF US RIGHT
NOW LIKE THERE&apos;S SORT OF A
MISMATCH AND THERE ARE A LOT
OF FACTORS THAT HAVE GONE INTO
THESE RELAXED CDC GUIDELINES
THAT FRANKLY DON&apos;T APPLY TO US.
THIS IS A BODY OF 11 PEOPLE.
THE WORK THAT WE&apos;RE DOING IS
NOT IS NOT ABOUT ATTRACTING
CUSTOMERS OR CREATING AN
ENVIRONMENT THAT IS MORE
COMFORTABLE OR APPEALING FOR
PEOPLE LIKE WE ARE.
WE ARE DOING WORK THAT NEEDS TO
BE ACCESSIBLE TO EVERYONE,
INCLUDING PEOPLE WHO ARE
VULNERABLE.
WE MEET THIS BODY MEETS EVERY
COUPLE OF WEEKS AT ANY POINT
THIS THIS RESOLUTION LIKE THIS
ONE COULD COME UP A CHANGE IN
POLICY COULD COME UP.
I IT&apos;S STRANGE TO ME THAT IT
WOULD COME UP NOW WHEN
TRANSMISSION RATES ARE SO HIGH
.
I AGAIN I I WORK IN AN
ENVIRONMENT WHERE WE ARE
WATCHING THESE GUIDELINES AND
WE ARE CHOOSING TO IMPOSE
HIGHER REQUIREMENTS ON
OURSELVES IN TERMS OF MASKING
AND IT FEELS LIKE THE RIGHT
DECISION BASED ON THE
ENVIRONMENT WE&apos;RE IN AND I
WOULD ARGUE THAT WE ARE IN AN
ENVIRONMENT WHERE WE SHOULD
WANT TO BE WE SHOULD WANT TO
FEEL SAFE FOR MORE PEOPLE WHO
ARE VULNERABLE AND END UP AND I
I KNOW FROM CONVERSATIONS WITH
PEOPLE I KNOW FROM WATCHING THE
BEHAVIOR OF PEOPLE WE AREN&apos;T AT
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT OF PEOPLE
SAYING YEAH, THE CDC SAYS IT&apos;S
MASKS ARE OPTIONAL.
I&apos;M I&apos;M TOTALLY COMFORTABLE IN
SPACES WHERE HALF OF THE PEOPLE
ARE ASKED AND HALF OF THEM ARE
NOT I&apos;M NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
SUPPORT THIS AND I THINK IT&apos;S
VERY IMPORTANT THAT THE
COMMUNITY UNDERSTAND THAT THAT
THIS THIS IS A MOVE TOWARDS
RELAXING A REQUIREMENT OR NOT
MAKING A STRICTER ONE.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
BRENER YEAH.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
WHEN THE RULES COMMITTEE GET
ABSORBED INTO THE ADMIN
COMMITTEE SOMEHOW, YOU KNOW, WE
CREATE A LOT OF RULES THAT WERE
VAGUE AND SUBJECT TO
INTERPRETIVE AND I SEE THAT
THIS WAY TOO.
I HATE THE NOTION OF  OUR
HEALTH DECISIONS TO A
CONSTANTLY MOVING FEDERAL
STANDARD WHEN AS COUNCILWOMAN
GRISWOLD POINTED OUT, YOU KNOW,
THE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT IS
GOT THE BOOTS ON THE GROUND TO
USE OLD EXPRESSION I&apos;M NOT
GOING TO SUPPORT THIS.
I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T LOVE
THE WAY IT&apos;S WRITTEN.
I DON&apos;T I THINK IT&apos;S
UNNECESSARILY VAGUE AND I THINK
IT COULD VERY WELL, YOU KNOW,
LEAD TO SORT OF ARBITRARY YOU
KNOW, EITHER RELAXING OR
STRENGTHENING OF THE STANDARDS
UNDER THE MAYOR&apos;S EMERGENCY
POWERS THAT HE&apos;S WITH STILL
HOLDS AND YOU FOR THAT REASON
ALONE I&apos;M GOING TO I&apos;M GOING TO
SAY NO TO THIS.
I&apos;M A BRACE.
YEAH.
IT&apos;S ONE OF THE THINGS THEY
HAVE IN COMMITTEE FOR BRINGING
FORWARD.
I THINK THIS MAKES SENSE FOR US
TO BE FOLLOWING THE
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE CENTERS
CENTER FOR DISEASE CONTROL.
YOU KNOW, WE ARE A COMMUNITY
THAT TRIES TO MAKE EVIDENCE
BASED DECISIONS AND FOLLOW
FEDERAL GUIDANCE AND AND LOCAL
HEALTH GUIDANCE ON SUCH
MATTERS.
I APPRECIATE THAT THIS IS A
LITTLE BIT STRICTER IN THE
SENSE THAT WE&apos;RE WHEN WE HAVE
HIGH TRANSMISSION RATES, IT&apos;S
NOT SIMPLY RECOMMENDED FOR US
THAT IT IS REQUIRED AND THAT
THAT&apos;S COMMUNICATED TO THE
PUBLIC THAT PROVIDES HIGHER
LEVEL OF SAFETY AND SECURITY
WITHIN THE SPACE AND MODELING
THE BEST PRACTICES WAS ALREADY
INDICATED BUT IT DOESN&apos;T MAKE
MUCH SENSE IF WE MOVE DOWN TO
LOW TRANSMISSION RATES TO TO
NECESSARILY BE IN THAT SAME
SPACE A YEAR FROM NOW.
SO YOU KNOW, HOPEFULLY
HOPEFULLY WE&apos;RE MOVING TO A
MORE POSITIVE DIRECTION.
I THINK IT MAKES SENSE TO TO
MOVE AROUND LOWER.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
SINCE I WASN&apos;T AT THE ADMIN
MEETING UM, TRYING TO
UNDERSTAND THE MATERIAL
DIFFERENCE HERE IN THESE TWO
RESOLUTIONS YOU KNOW OUR TWENTY
ONE FOUR SIX ONE AND THE ONE
THAT&apos;S BEING BROUGHT HERE IN
THE COLLEAGUES OF DISCUSS THIS
HAVE HAVE SAID THIS IS ACTUALLY
A WATERING DOWN OF THE CURRENT
STANDARD THAT&apos;S IN PLACE.
IF I COULD HAVE MAYBE WATCHED
BY THE SPONSORS OF THAT OR THE
FOLKS IN THE ADMIN COMMITTEE
WHAT WHAT WHAT EFFECT
OF MATERIAL DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
THE ONE PASSED IN TWENTY ONE
VERSUS THIS AND FURTHER, YOU
KNOW, THE CDC HAS BEEN ALL OVER
THE MAP THE LAST TWO AND A HALF
YEARS.
IT&apos;S UNFORTUNATE THAT THIS
VIRUS AND PANDEMIC HAS BEEN
POLITICIZED TO ATTEMPT DEGREE
AND TRUST ME IT WAS HERE AS
WELL.
WHAT WHAT AGAIN WHAT IS THE
MATERIAL DIFFERENCE HERE?
IS IT JUST WE&apos;RE JUST
OURSELVES ON THE CDC NO VIRUSES
OR GUIDELINES VERSUS THE WATCH
COUNTY OR SO.
YOU KNOW, THE POLICY RIGHT NOW
IS THAT WE ARE MANDATED THAT
EVERYONE WEARS MASKS REGARDLESS
OF TRANSMISSION LEVELS SO THE
CDC HAS RECOMMENDATIONS BASED
ON COUNTY GUIDELINES.
SO IT&apos;S NOT THE CDC OR THE
COUNTY, IT&apos;S THEM.
IT&apos;S THE COUNTY SETS RATES
OF TRANSMISSION AND CDC HAS
GUIDELINES DEPENDING ON WHAT
THOSE RATES OF TRANSMISSION ARE
.
SO WE&apos;VE MADE IT A LITTLE BIT
STRICTER.
I THINK THERE WAS ALSO A
REACTION WHICH DOESN&apos;T ANSWER
YOUR QUESTION BUT BUT GOES A
STEP FURTHER THAT THERE ARE
SOME ASPECTS OF DISTANCING THAT
ARE NO LONGER UNDER CDC
GUIDELINES.
SO THE WAY WE HAVE THESE
BARRIERS AND COUNCIL JAIL AND
OUR CITY ATTORNEY WISH WE HAD A
DISCRETION IT CAN BE VERY
DIFFICULT FOR HER TO HEAR
WHAT&apos;S HAPPENING DURING OUR
MEETINGS BECAUSE SHE&apos;S THEIR
ATTORNEY AT THE KIDS TABLE OVER
THERE AND THAT&apos;S NOT REALLY
CONDUCIVE TO EFFECTIVE
DISCUSSION AND THAT&apos;S WORKING
TOGETHER.
SAME WITH THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR WHO HISTORICALLY
HAS BEEN AT THE COUNCIL TABLE
WITH US SO WE HAD DISCUSSIONS
ABOUT THAT AS WELL IN TERMS
OF WHAT WE THINK IS JUST MOST
EFFECTIVE FOR THIS BODY.
&gt;&gt; SO SO IT&apos;S A FEW IT&apos;S A FEW
THINGS THAT ARE MOTIVATING THAT
BUT ALSO JUST TO I THINK MAKE
IT A LITTLE LESS CONFUSING FOR
THE PUBLIC TO BE MORE IN LINE
WITH FEDERAL GUIDELINES.
AND I THINK IT&apos;S ALSO IMPORTANT
TO REMEMBER THAT THE CDC HAS
BEEN ALL OVER THE MAP AND IT
WAS CALLED A NOVEL VIRUS FOR A
REASON THAT YOU KNOW, WE DIDN&apos;T
KNOW WHEN THINGS FIRST CAME OUT
AND THAT WERE CONSTANT LEARNING
AND EVOLVING AND SOMETIMES I
THINK WE GET IT RIGHT OR THEN
WE GET IT WRONG.
BUT BUT THAT&apos;S PART OF WHAT THE
SCIENTIFIC PROCESS IS, RIGHT?
YOU YOU LEARN AND YOU ADJUST
AND IF YOU GET IT WRONG, WHICH
SOMETIMES YOU DO, THEN YOU TRY
TO MAKE IT BETTER.
SO ENTICING THESE TO THE CDC
GUIDELINES IT ALLOWS FOR THAT
FLEXIBILITY INSTEAD SORT OF THE
RIGIDITY THAT WE HAVE IN THE
CURRENT POLICY FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF REALLY WELL YOU
IT DEPENDS ON WHO IS THE
PRESIDENT AS WELL.
YOU KNOW IT IS A NOVEL VIRUS
BECAUSE ME I&apos;M NOT A SCIENTIST
BUT BECAUSE OF THE FACT IT WAS
A NEW ONE IT HASN&apos;T BEEN
EXPOSED TO HUMANS.
WE HAVE GONE THROUGH PANDEMICS
BEFORE.
I GUESS MY QUESTION WOULD BE IT
WITH THIS GOING INTO EFFECT IF
THIS WAS THE RESOLUTION, UH,
HOW WOULD TONIGHT&apos;S MEETING BE
DIFFERENT?
IT WOULDN&apos;T OH CANCER OR
PERHAPS SURE WE WOULD ALL STILL
BE WEARING MASKS.
THE PUBLIC WOULD BE REQUIRED TO
WEAR MASKS BUT WE WOULD NOT
HAVE THE SOCIAL DISTANCING
BECAUSE THE CDC HAS HAS
DETERMINED THAT THE SOCIAL
DISTANCING IN THESE PLEXIGLASS
IT&apos;S PERFORMATIVE.
&gt;&gt; IT DOESN&apos;T ACTUALLY DO
ANYTHING SO THAT THAT PART
WOULD GO AWAY.
BUT BECAUSE COMMUNITY
TRANSMISSION IS HIGH RIGHT NOW,
MASKS WOULD STILL BE REQUIRED.
SO OUR CITY ATTORNEY AND OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR WOULD BE AT
THIS TABLE WITH US AND WE
WOULDN&apos;T HAVE COUNCIL MEMBERS
IN THE BACK ROW ANYMORE.
SO IF THIS WERE TO PASS TONIGHT
NEXT AND WE BE AT ONE TABLE BUT
SO THERE WOULD BE A LITTLE BIT
OF DIFFERENCE.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
OVER DENHA MY APOLOGIES.
&gt;&gt; NO, THAT&apos;S ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
I DON&apos;T HAVE A TON MORE TO ADD
BEYOND WHAT WAS ALREADY ADDED
WITH RESPECT TO ESSENTIALLY
THAT&apos;S JUST BRINGING US IN LINE
WITH WHAT I THINK WE HAVE BEEN
PREACHING ALL ALONG WHICH IS
THAT WE SHOULD FOLLOW FOLLOW
THE SIGNS AND MAKE EVIDENCE
BASED DECISIONS.
THE CDC GUIDANCE HERE IS IS A
LITTLE BIT LESS RESTRICTIVE
THAN WHAT WE ARE PUTTING
FORWARD.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY SOMETHING
THAT I WANTED TO POINT OUT THAT
I DON&apos;T BELIEVE HAS BEEN SAID
YET IS EVEN IN IN TIMES WHEN WE
WOULDN&apos;T BE REQUIRED TO WEAR A
MASK AT THIS TABLE OR WITHIN
THE CHAMBERS THEMSELVES,
INDIVIDUALS COULD STILL
OBVIOUSLY TAKE THAT THAT THAT
AND MAKE THE DECISION
THEMSELVES AND CONTINUE TO WEAR
A MASK IF THEY CHOOSE.
I BELIEVE COUNCIL MEMBER GRANT
POINTED OUT THAT THAT FOLKS WHO
ARE HIGH RISK ARE LIKELY GOING
TO CONTINUE PARTICIPATING IN
OUR HYBRID ENVIRONMENT THAT
THAT I THINK WILL CONTINUE
GOING FORWARD.
BUT ULTIMATELY INDIVIDUALS WHO
WILL WANT TO CONTINUE WEARING
MASKS WOULD DO SO LIKE I THINK
WE PROBABLY ALL DO EVERYWHERE
ELSE IN THE COMMUNITY AS AS
WE&apos;RE GOING TO GROCERY STORES
AND RESTAURANTS AND AND BACK TO
WORK OFTEN I MAY BE THE ONLY
PERSON IN ONE OF THOSE ROOMS
WEARING A MASK.
OTHER TIMES EVERYONE MIGHT BE
BUT BUT THIS THIS STEP WHERE
WE&apos;VE KIND OF ADDED THE
ADDITIONAL RESTRICTION IS THAT
IF WE ARE IN THE HIGH GUIDANCE
WHERE EVERYONE IS RECOMMENDED
TO WEAR IT AS HAS BEEN STATED,
WE WOULD STILL REQUIRE THAT AND
CONTINUE TO PROVIDE THE PPE
HERE AT THE MEETINGS FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC AS WELL
AS ELSE.
I&apos;D LIKE TO MOVE TO POSTPONE US
UNTIL THE COMMUNITY LEVELS ARE
MEASURED AS MEDIUM.
AND THE REASON THE REASON IS
THAT WHAT THIS IS ACTUALLY
OPENING UP IS THE OPPORTUNITY
FOR US TO HAVE STANDARDS OUR
FLUCTUATING AND CHANGING AND
AGAIN THE ENVIRONMENT THAT I
WORK IN WE DECIDED THAT WE WERE
NOT GOING TO FOLLOW THE NUMBER
OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS RECOMMENDED
UP IN OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS
PROTOCOLS BECAUSE IT WAS TOO
DIFFICULT TO GO BACK AND FORTH
AND FRANKLY THE FLUCTUATIONS
THAT WE&apos;VE SEEN THE LAST COUPLE
OF YEARS, I I THINK IT IS
COMPLETELY REASONABLE FOR A
BODY THAT MEETS EVERY COUPLE
OF WEEKS TO DELAY A DECISION
LIKE THIS TO TO HESITATE TO
MAKE A DECISION LIKE THIS BASED
ON WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE RIGHT
NOW.
I, I, I HEAR WHAT HAS BEEN
EXPLAINED AROUND THE SEATING
AND THE ARRANGEMENTS OF THIS
REALM THAT WAS NOT IN THE IN
THE AGENDA ITEM THAT I WAS
READING IN PREPARATION FOR THIS
MEETING.
I THAT IS NEWS TO ME AGAIN I&apos;M
MOVING TO POSTPONE THIS UNTIL
THE TRANSMISSION IS REPORTED BY
THE COUNTY ARE NOT HIGH OR
MEDIUM.
I THINK WE NEED TO EITHER HAVE
A DATE ON CERTAIN OR A DATE
CERTAIN AND I DON&apos;T THINK WE
CAN REFER IT TO A THIRD PARTY
DATE THEN I GUESS I WOULD HAVE
TO TABLE IT THEN
ONE SECOND IT
WOULD TABLES FOR LIKE A SITE
THAT HEART TABLING IS REQUIRES
A WE DON&apos;T DO THIS VERY OFTEN.
IT&apos;S A NON NON DEBATE REQUIRES
A SUPERMAJORITY TABLING
SECONDED.
IS THIS A YOU POINT OF ORDERING
ME THAT?
&gt;&gt; SURE.
WHAT IS THE POINT OF ORDER.
SO TABLING IS FOR WHEN
SOMETHING ELSE COMES UP THAT
THE BODY NEEDS TO DEAL WITH
RIGHT AWAY YOU TABLE IT AND
THEN YOU COME BACK TO IT WHEN
YOU CAN GET TO IT.
SO IF WE NEEDED SUDDENLY RECESS
OR IF THERE WAS SOME OTHER
ISSUE THAT CAME UP RIGHT AWAY
THAT WE HAD TO DEAL WITH,
THAT&apos;S THE THAT&apos;S THE CORRECT
POINT OF ORDER.
WHAT IS YOUR POINT OF ORDER?
MY POINT OF ORDER IS THAT I
WOULD LIKE OUR CITY ATTORNEY TO
TELL US WHAT TABLING IS AND
WHEN IT MAY BE USED.
&gt;&gt; I ACTUALLY JUST HEARD FROM
OUR CITY CLERK I&apos;D LIKE TO
POSTPONE INDEFINITELY THAT IS
APPROPRIATE.
WE&apos;LL PULL BACK IF FIVE MAY
WE&apos;LL PULL BACK THE MOTION TO
TABLE AND HAVE A MOTION TO
MOTION TO PUT A SECOND DATE ON
CERTAIN SECONDED BY COUNCIL NO
HAYNER IS THERE DISCUSSION
OF THE POSTPONEMENT THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS CLEARLY SOMETHING MORE
IS UP HERE OR THAT WOULDN&apos;T
HAVE BEEN THE TABLING WOULD
HAVE BEEN FOUGHT.
I WONDER IF OUR ATTORNEY WOULD
LIKE TO WEIGH IN ON THAT.
IS THERE SOMETHING GOING ON
HERE THAT WE NEED TO KNOW ABOUT
LIKE OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR
VARIOUS AGREEMENTS AND USE WE
HAVE WITH OUR VARIOUS UNIONS
HERE IN THE THE CITY STAFF FOR
EXAMPLE?
BECAUSE I KNOW THAT MY
RESOLUTION TO ASK FOR THE
RETENTION OF THE MAYOR&apos;S
EMERGENCY POWERS COVID WAS
INITIALLY ACCEPTED HEARTILY AND
THEN AN HOUR LATER REJECTED FOR
A VARIETY OF REASONS THAT I
WON&apos;T MENTION OUTSIDE OF A
CLOSED SESSION.
AND SO I I WILL SUPPORT THIS
POSTPONEMENT BECAUSE I HAVE
CONCERNS ABOUT WHAT MIGHT BE
LURKING BEHIND ANY MOVES WE
MAKE IN THIS AREA.
IS THAT OK?
I&apos;LL TRY TO ANSWER THAT
QUESTION.
UM, COUNCIL MEMBER HERE THERE&apos;S
NOTHING GOING ON HERE BEYOND
WHAT IS RIGHT IN FRONT OF YOU
WHICH IS YOU HAVE A NEW CITY
ATTORNEY WHO WAS HONEST WITH
YOU AND YOU TOOK THE JOB THAT
SHE MIGHT REQUIRE SOME TIME TO
LEARN THE ENTIRE BOOK OF THE
ROBERT&apos;S RULES AND I&apos;M TRYING
TO FIGURE IT OUT AS YOU GO
ALONG IF YOU REALLY NEED AN
ANSWER TO THE TABLE IN
QUESTION, I WOULD REQUEST A
FIVE MINUTE RECESS SO I CAN
QUICKLY LOOK THIS UP AND GET
BACK TO YOU.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S FINE.
WITHOUT CHANGE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ON YOUR OTHER QUESTION, I THINK
IT WAS A QUESTION ABOUT YOUR
REQUEST WITH RESPECT TO THE WE
JUST OUT OUR QUESTION FOR YOU
CAN YOU START WITH WHAT WE&apos;RE
SPEAKING TO HERE IS WILL THERE
BE ANY UNFORESEEN CIRCUMSTANCES
OR FORESEEN CIRCUMSTANCES IF
THIS IS ACTED UPON AND OR
DELAYED OR POSTPONED AT THIS
POINT THAT YOU ARE AWARE OF IN
OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH STAFF OR
THE AUTHORITY WE HAVE OVER
STAFF OR MANDATES FOR THIS OR
THAT?
&gt;&gt; NO, THE ONLY THING THAT I&apos;M
AWARE OF IS THAT THE BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS CURRENTLY FOLLOW
THE SAME EXACT RULES THAT
COUNCIL DOES AND IF YOU WERE TO
CHANGE SOMETHING TODAY FROM
WHAT IS ALREADY EXISTING THAT
WOULD BE CASCADED DOWN.
THAT IS THE ONLY THING I&apos;M
AWARE OF WITH RESPECT TO YOUR
INTERACTION WITH STAFF, I&apos;M NOT
AWARE OF ANYTHING.
&gt;&gt; MR. MAYOR.
MR. MR. MAYOR, THE ITEM THIS
HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THE
STANDARD THAT WAS FOR STAFF IN
THEIR PERFORMANCE WITHIN CITY
HALL.
THOSE STANDARDS ARE SET BY THE
ADMINISTRATOR VITAMINS NOTHING
TO DO WITH THAT FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE POSTPONEMENT.
KATMAI RIC&apos;S YEAH I DON&apos;T
SUPPORT A POSTPONE COMMENT.
I APPRECIATE THE CONCERNS THAT
COUNCIL NO NELSON RAISED AROUND
WANTING SOME CONSISTENCY HERE.
I THINK THAT THERE REMAINS SOME
OPPORTUNITY FOR SOME
CONSISTENCY.
I WOULD ASK FOR A PIECE
OF CLARIFICATION.
&gt;&gt; I WONDER IF A BIT OF THE
RESOLUTION SAYS THAT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR SHALL CONTINUE TO
PROVIDE.
LET ME REITERATE THAT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR SHOULD DETERMINE
THE SPACING AT CITY COUNTY
COUNCIL MEETINGS IN
CONSULTATION WITH THE CITY
COUNCIL ADMINISTRATION
COMMITTEE AS APPROPRIATE.
&gt;&gt; SO TO ME THAT DOESN&apos;T
DEFINITIVELY SAY THAT THE
SPACING HERE AT THIS TABLE
MIGHT SHIFT THAT THAT THAT&apos;S
SOMETHING THAT ADMINISTRATIVE
STAFF IS GOING TO NEED TO
CONSIDER IN TERMS OF , YOU
KNOW, IF THEY FEEL LIKE THERE&apos;S
GOING TO A LOT OF FLUCTUATION
OR A NEED FOR THAT, YOU KNOW
THAT THERE&apos;S SOME OPPORTUNITY I
GUESS JUST POINT OF CLARITY IT
SOUNDS LIKE IS THAT&apos;S NOT
NECESSARILY FULLY IDENTIFIED
YET.
&gt;&gt; MAYBE THERE&apos;S BEEN SOME
DISCUSSION ADMEN AROUND THAT
BUT THERE NOTHING DEFINITIVE.
OK, SO I APPRECIATE THE REQUEST
FOR A POSTPONEMENT BUT I DO
SUPPORT MOVING FORWARD FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE POSTPONEMENT
ROLL ALTHOUGH PLEASE STARTING
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER
POSTPONEMENT TO A DATE
UNCERTAIN COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER
YES COUNCILOR COUNTERMANDING NO
HANSBERGER AS WELL.
YES, THAT&apos;S MY SONG.
NO COUNCILOR GRANT NO COUNCILOR
DENHA NO MAYOR TAYLOR.
NO THAT&apos;S MARIAH.
NO SMIRNOFF&apos;S YES.
&gt;&gt; NO BRICKS NO CUSTOMER RIMAWI
YES.
MOSHAVIM FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF THE MAIN MOTION COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH I I UNDERSTAND
PEOPLE&apos;S CONCERNS ABOUT RISING
CASE NUMBERS.
I THINK THEY WILL ONLY CONTINUE
TO RISE.
EVERYONE&apos;S BEEN SAYING WE&apos;D BE
IN A SURGE THIS FALL BUT IN
FACT WE ARE SAYING IF I WELL I
SHOULD PUT THIS AS A QUESTION
DO I UNDERSTAND IT CORRECTLY
THAT WHEN CDC SAYS LEVELS ARE
HIGH AND MASKING ENDORSES
RECOMMENDED WE ARE GOING TO
REQUIRE IT?
YES.
COUNTY BUT SO I MEAN I WENT
INTO A STORE THIS MORNING TO
GET SOME CHOCOLATE
COVERED CHERRIES FOR MY MOTHER
AND THAT I KNOW IT&apos;S SO
EXTRANEOUS BUT MY MOTHER IS
IMPORTANT IN THIS IN THESE
THINGS THAT I THINK ABOUT ABOUT
MY ASKING AND THE DOOR SAID CDC
SAYS THE LEVELS HIGH YOU KNOW
YOU&apos;RE ENCOURAGED TO WEAR YOUR
MASK.
&gt;&gt; WELL, I WORE I REQUIRED
MYSELF TO WEAR A MASK AND I
THINK THIS THIS IS CONSISTENT
WITH MY PRACTICE WHICH IS WHEN
I SEE THAT IT&apos;S I MEAN ACTUALLY
I MASK ALL THE TIME BUT AND IT
WON&apos;T KEEP ME FROM DOING THAT
AND I WILL BE SAFE IF I MASK
AND AND WE&apos;RE IN A DIFFERENT
PLACE AND OTHERS DON&apos;T.
I&apos;M TOTALLY COMFORTABLE WITH
THIS.
I THINK IT&apos;S FINE WE YOU KNOW
WE CAN LEAVE A LITTLE ROOM FOR
FLEXIBILITY BUT WHEN THINGS ARE
THIS HIGH AND SHOULD THEY
CONTINUE TO BE WE WILL CONTINUE
TO MASK AND WE MIGHT STILL HAVE
COUNSELL JAIL AS JULIE CALLS IT
,FURTHER DISCUSSION
.
I THINK YOU&apos;VE ALREADY SPOKEN
TWICE IN THE MAIN MOTION.
COUNCILMAN THOUGHT I WAS ONE TO
BE RIGHT FOR THE DISCUSSION.
THE MAIN MOTION FOR MY I SPEAK
I DON&apos;T BELIEVE YOU SPOKEN
TWICE IN MOTION MY
KALTENBRUNNER OH THANKS.
YOU KNOW SINCE I MEAN IT&apos;S BEEN
WITH US FOR A BIT IT&apos;S JUST WE
NEVER KIND OF RECEIVED ANY
FORMAL POLICY ANALYSIS ABOUT
WHAT WE SHOULD BE DOING ABOUT
THIS.
BUT YOU KNOW, PUBLIC HEALTH IS
THERE ANYTHING OUTSIDE OF OUR
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE COUNTY?
I JUST AGAIN I JUST THINK I
THINK THAT WE ARE GOOD ENOUGH
TO DECIDE THAT A STRICT
STANDARD IS IN ORDER AND THAT
WE SHOULDN&apos;T BE VACILLATING OUR
STANDARD BACK AND FORTH MAKING
WORK FOR STAFF COURT TO SET OUR
THING UP A DIFFERENT WAY AND
GROW AND UP AND DOWN WITH THE
TIDE OF THE CDC WHICH WE KNOW
IS A HEALTH ORGANIZATION BUT
ALSO THERE ARE OTHER GLOBAL
HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS WE PEGGED
IT TO THE CDC BECAUSE WE&apos;RE
HERE IN THE UNITED STATES.
&gt;&gt; BUT YOU KNOW ALL
BUREAUCRATIC ORGANIZATIONS BY
THE VERY NATURE ARE POLITICAL
AND SO ON AND SO I JUST I DON&apos;T
I&apos;M VERY UNCOMFORTABLE OUR
HEALTH CONSIDERATIONS TO A
MOVING TARGET LIKE THE CDC.
I THINK WE&apos;RE ADULT ENOUGH TO
DECIDE IT&apos;S SAFE FOR US HERE
AND I AGREE.
I THINK THESE THINGS ARE KIND
OF HOKEY.
I MEAN WE&apos;RE ALL BREATHE THE
SAME AIR WE DIDN&apos;T MAKE AS FAR
AS I KNOW WE DIDN&apos;T MAKE BIG
IMPROVEMENTS TO OUR HVAC
SYSTEMS HERE IN THIS ROOM LIKE
MAYBE WE DID.
I MEAN I KNOW A LOT
OF BUSINESSES DID A LOT
OF RESTAURANTS, NIGHTCLUBS IN
PLACE THAT HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE
IN THEM DID PUBLIC SPACES,
PUBLIC PRIVATE SPACES.
SO YEAH, I JUST I I DON&apos;T GET
IT.
I DON&apos;T GET WHERE IT&apos;S COMING
FROM AND I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S
NECESSARY SO I DON&apos;T SUPPORT IT
FURTHER THE DISCUSSION NO SONG
CAN WE ASK A QUESTION OF THE
SPONSORS COUNCIL MEMBER GRANT
IS HAS A PH.D. IN PUBLIC HEALTH
I BELIEVE IT WAS DID THAT WAY
INTO WAS THAT DID YOU IS YOUR
EXPERTIZE AND YOUR BACKGROUND
WERE PART OF THIS RESOLUTION
WERE INFORMED A PART OF THIS
RESOLUTION?
I THINK IT&apos;S HARD TO SEPARATE
ONE&apos;S EDUCATIONAL BACKGROUND
AND TRAINING FROM YOU KNOW WHAT
INFORMS ALL THE DECISIONS.
I DON&apos;T YOU KNOW, MY SHE&apos;S NOT
IN EPIDEMIOLOGY.
I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T BUT I BUT I DO
YOU KNOW, I DO THINK IT&apos;S
IMPORTANT TO LOOK AT COMMUNITY
PRACTICE AND GUIDELINES AND TRY
TO MAKE THINGS AS CLEAR AS
POSSIBLE.
YOU MAY ALSO, YOU KNOW, LOOK AT
WHAT&apos;S HAPPENING IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND THEN THERE ARE
MANY OF US SITTING HERE AT THIS
TABLE HAVE KIDS IN THE AREA
PUBLIC SCHOOLS FOR EXAMPLE, WHO
ARE GOING TO SCHOOL AND YOU
KNOW, BASICALLY EN MASS
ENVIRONMENT EVERY DAY AND WE
ALL YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE ALL
BRINGING THAT BACK TO THE SPACE
SO I THINK IT BECOMES
INCREASINGLY DIFFICULT TO
SEPARATE OUT, YOU KNOW, WHAT
HAPPENS OUTSIDE OF YOU KNOW,
OUTSIDE OF THESE CHAMBERS.
SO THAT DEFINITELY WAS A FACTOR
AND IN MY SUPPORTING THIS
POLICY PROPITIATED I THINK FROM
WHAT I INTERPRET FROM OUR
DISCUSSIONS HERE AND FROM THE
RESOLUTION IS THAT IT&apos;S COMING
OUT OF SOME CONCERNS AND
PRACTICES THAT WE THAT WE WERE
PARENTS.
SOME OF US CARE FOR OUR OUR OUR
OWN PARENTS.
I DON&apos;T THINK WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE
INTENTIONALLY PUTTING ADDING
MORE RISK.
I THINK THAT EFFORT IS GUIDED
TOWARDS INCREASED PROTECTIONS.
IS THAT CORRECT?
I THINK THAT&apos;S TRUE.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL OVER GRISWOLD.
I&apos;D LIKE TO OFFER AN AMENDMENT
WHEREAS WE RELY ON THE
WASHTENAW COUNTY HEALTH
DEPARTMENT TO TO DETERMINE A
LOCAL TRANSMISSION LEVEL IS
THERE A SECOND SET OF ACCOUNTS
FOR HOURS OF THE BODY?
FINALLY THE BODY?
DID YOU GET THAT?
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
FOR MY PART I AM I&apos;M GOING TO
SUPPORT THE SUPPORT THE
RESOLUTION IN THE PROPOSED
CHANGE.
WHAT IT DOES IS IT KEYS OFF
OF THE THE GUIDANCE THE
SCIENTIFIC PROVIDED TO US BY
THE CDC AND BY THE WASHTENAW
PUBLIC HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND
THEN IT ERRS ON THE SIDE
OF CAUTION WHEN TRANSMISSION
LEVELS ARE HIGH AND MASKS ARE
RECOMMENDED, WE HERE WILL
REQUIRE THEM AT THE SAME TIME,
I THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT FOR US
TO OBSERVE THAT WE ARE IN PLACE
WHERE WE WANT TO BE
PARTICULARLY OPEN TO THE
PUBLIC.
WE ALSO HAVE TO UNDERSTAND THAT
WE HAVE BEEN PARTICULARLY OPEN
TO THE PUBLIC.
WE HAVE BEEN MUCH STRICTER THAN
OTHERS IN OUR IN OUR COMMUNITY,
OTHER GROUPS IN OUR COMMUNITY,
OTHER PLACES OF PUBLIC
ACCOMMODATION IN OUR COMMUNITY
AND I THINK WE CAN ALSO
REASONABLY OBSERVE THAT THERE&apos;S
NOBODY HERE DOESN&apos;T COME
EXCLUDED.
WE HAVE KEPT A HIGHLY
RESTRICTIVE AND A SUBSTANTIALLY
MORE RESTRICTIVE RULE SET HERE
IN ORDER TO MAKE IT A PLACE FOR
PEOPLE TO COME AND YET THEY ARE
NOT HERE.
I THINK WE HAVE TO LOOK A
LITTLE BIT WE HAVE TO BE
PRACTICAL ABOUT THIS.
WE ALSO NEED TO BE ABLE TO
ENFORCE THE RULES THAT WE HAVE
IN THE EVENT THAT THAT THE THE
COUNTY TRANSMISSION DIMINISHES
TO LOW AND WE WERE TO CONTINUE
TO HAVE A RESOLUTION WHICH
OBLIGATED WHICH OBLIGATED
MASKING, WHICH OBLIGATED
DISTANCING I THINK WOULD HAVE
AN AWKWARD ASYMMETRY FROM THE
PUBLIC REALITY TO THE COUNCIL
REALITY.
AND THAT&apos;S NOT A THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
NOT SOMETHING THAT THAT I THINK
IS IN ANYBODY&apos;S BEST INTERESTS.
IT&apos;S IMPORTANT THAT WE LISTEN
TO THE SCIENCE THAT WE OBSERVE
THE LOCAL CONDITIONS ON THE
GROUND, THAT WE ARE ON THE SIDE
OF CAUTION AND THAT IS EXACTLY
WHAT THIS RESOLUTION IS IS
DOING FURTHER DISCUSSION
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE STARTING
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER
MEMBER HAYNER.
NO, NO.
YES, THAT&apos;S REGRETTABLE.
YES MURSAU YES.
COUNTERPROGRAM THAT&apos;S WHERE
DENHA YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
MARIAH YES COUNCILMAN ALSO NO
ELSMERE BRIGGS YES.
THAT&apos;S MY RIMAWI NO MOTION
CARRY DO WE HAVE A CLOSED
SESSION TODAY.
NO WE DO NOT THANK YOU.
WE HAVE BEFORE SUPPORT
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS MADE A MOTION PLEASE
TO APPROVE THE CLERK&apos;S SUPPORT
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED THE
KIRK SUPPORTERS APPROVED DO WE
HAVE COMMUNICATIONS FOR
INDOMITABLE CITY ATTORNEY?
I AM AWARE THAT THERE HAS BEEN
PRESS AND YOU HAVE ALL BEEN
INFORMED BY ME ABOUT THE RECENT
COURT OF APPEALS DECISION IN
GALMAN.
I JUST WANT TO ASSURE YOU THAT
WE ARE TAKING IT VERY SERIOUSLY
AND WE ARE LOOKING AT VARIOUS
OPTIONS PROCEDURALLY THE CASE
HAS NOT YET COME DOWN BACK TO
JUDGE CONNORS SO THERE IS
NOTHING YET TO BE IMMEDIATELY
DONE BUT I WILL PRESENT YOU
WITH OPTIONS ONCE WE HAVE
VETTED THEM.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
YOU NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT,
GENERAL TIME, PUBLIC COMMENT
GENERAL TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNTY IN THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT GENERAL TIME
ONE NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE.
SPEAKERS WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION THE
TIME OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU
IN THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC COMMENT
IS BOOGY.
WE HAVE A FEW CALLERS ON THE
LINE
I HEARD SOMEONE SAY THAT
IF YOU WEAR A MASK THAT WILL
KEEP YOU SAFE AND THAT IS TRUE
BUT IT WON&apos;T KEEP YOU AS SAFE
AS IT WOULD HAVE OTHER PEOPLE
WEARING A MASK, YOU NEED TO
HAVE OTHER PEOPLE AROUND YOU
WEARING A MASK IN ORDER TO KEEP
YOU SAFE.
I WEAR MY MASK IN ORDER TO KEEP
YOU WEAR YOUR MASK IN ORDER TO
YOU SAFE.
KEEP ME SAFE.
YOU WEAR YOUR MASK IN ORDER TO
THAT&apos;S HOW IT WORKS.
KEEP ME SAFE.
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S HOW THAT&apos;S HOW
THAT&apos;S HOW IT WORKS.
THE SCIENCE OF THIS OF THE
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S HOW THAT&apos;S HOW
WORKS AND SO IT&apos;S INSUFFICIENT
THE SCIENCE OF THIS OF THE
TO ASK TO ASK VULNERABLE PEOPLE
WORKS AND SO IT&apos;S INSUFFICIENT
TO EXPOSE THEMSELVES TO THE
TO ASK TO ASK VULNERABLE PEOPLE
RISK OF BEING IN A CLOSED ROOM
TO EXPOSE THEMSELVES TO THE
WITH A MASKED PEOPLE EVEN IF
RISK OF BEING IN A CLOSED ROOM
THEY ARE THEMSELVES WEARING A
WITH A MASKED PEOPLE EVEN IF
MASK.
THEY ARE THEMSELVES WEARING A
ALSO I&apos;VE HEARD A LOT OF PEOPLE
MASK.
SAY THAT THESE NEW GUIDELINES
ALSO I&apos;VE HEARD A LOT OF PEOPLE
ARE SCIENTIFICALLY BASED WHEN I
SAY THAT THESE NEW GUIDELINES
SPECIFICALLY REMEMBER HEARING
ARE SCIENTIFICALLY BASED WHEN I
THE CDC ADMIT THAT THE NEW
SPECIFICALLY REMEMBER HEARING
RELAXED GUIDANCE WAS NOT
THE CDC ADMIT THAT THE NEW
ENTIRELY BASED ON SCIENCE AND
RELAXED GUIDANCE WAS NOT
WAS IN FACT MORE BASED ON
ENTIRELY BASED ON SCIENCE AND
ECONOMICS THAT WAS THERE WHEN
WAS IN FACT MORE BASED ON
THEY WERE TALKING ABOUT THEIR
ECONOMICS THAT WAS THERE WHEN
RETURN TO WORK POLICY OF FIVE
THEY WERE TALKING ABOUT THEIR
DAYS INSTEAD 10 DAYS
RETURN TO WORK POLICY OF FIVE
OF ISOLATION.
DAYS INSTEAD 10 DAYS
AND SO I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S
OF ISOLATION.
NECESSARILY SAFE TO SAY THAT
AND SO I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S
ALL OF THIS THAT ALL OF THE CDC
NECESSARILY SAFE TO SAY THAT
IS MASKING DECISIONS ARE ALSO
ALL OF THIS THAT ALL OF THE CDC
ENTIRELY BASED ON SCIENCE.
IS MASKING DECISIONS ARE ALSO
AND I ALSO WANT TO POINT OUT
ENTIRELY BASED ON SCIENCE.
THAT LIKE EVEN A FULLY
AND I ALSO WANT TO POINT OUT
VACCINATED PERSON CAN GET COVID
THAT LIKE EVEN A FULLY
BE ASYMPTOMATIC AND TRANSMIT IT
VACCINATED PERSON CAN GET COVID
TO SOMEBODY ELSE.
BE ASYMPTOMATIC AND TRANSMIT IT
I ALSO WANT TO POINT OUT THAT
TO SOMEBODY ELSE.
EVEN A HEALTHY VACCINATED
I ALSO WANT TO POINT OUT THAT
PERSON STANDS A GOOD RISK
EVEN A HEALTHY VACCINATED
OF GETTING A PERMANENT
PERSON STANDS A GOOD RISK
DISABILITY BY LONG COVID OR AT
OF GETTING A PERMANENT
LEAST VERY LONG TERM DISABILITY
DISABILITY BY LONG COVID OR AT
EVEN IF NOT PERMANENT.
LEAST VERY LONG TERM DISABILITY
AND THAT&apos;S NOT YOU KNOW, THAT&apos;S
EVEN IF NOT PERMANENT.
SOMETHING THAT
CAN HAPPEN AND
THAT&apos;S NOT EVEN IN THESE CASE
NUMBERS WE&apos;RE GETTING
HOSPITALIZE AND WE&apos;RE GETTING
WE&apos;RE GETTING, YOU KNOW, CASES
THE HOSPITALIZATIONS AND DEATHS
THAT&apos;S NOT EVEN COUNTING THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE PERMANENTLY
DISABLED BECAUSE OF LONG COVID
AND ALSO THE COMMUNITY LEVELS
OF MEDIUM AND HOW THESE THINGS
ALL HAPPEN IN THE THE ALL THE
TRANSMISSION LEVELS THAT THE
CDC USED TO TRACK ARE WOULD
HAVE BEEN CONSIDERED HIGH AND
WOULD HAVE BEEN CONSIDERED
DANGEROUS TO THE COMMUNITY
LEVELS TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE
CAPACITY OF THE HOSPITAL SO THE
COMMUNITY LEVEL IS HIGHER RIGHT
NOW BECAUSE THEIR HOSPITALS.
WELL, THAT&apos;S LIKE SAYING THAT
WHEN THE HOSPITAL HAS BEDS IT&apos;S
OK TO DO DRUNK DRIVING.
IT&apos;S OK IF YOU HEARD SOMEONE
FROM DRIVING BECAUSE THEY CAN
JUST GO TO THE HOSPITAL.
SO I HOPE YOU RECONSIDER THESE
THINGS AND THANK YOU COUNCIL
MEMBER NELSON FOR ATTEMPTING TO
HOLD THE LINE HERE.
YOU&apos;LL BE HEARING FROM ME ON
THE PHONE.
I WILL NEVER GO TO THE CITY
COUNCIL MEETINGS WHEN WHEN THE
COMMUNITY LEVEL IS MEETING
BECAUSE IT&apos;S TOO DANGEROUS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; ADAM GOODMAN, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
I&apos;M A RESIDENT OF WARD FIVE.
I WANT TO SAY TONIGHT AND I&apos;M
INCREDIBLY DISAPPOINTED IN
THOSE FEW THAT VOTED AGAINST
THE STATE TRANSFER STUDY
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT THIS
REJECTION LETTER, SPECIFICALLY
THE AREA BETWEEN MAPLE AND
DEXTER.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS ABOUT A QUARTER MILE
STRETCH OF ROAD WITHOUT A
SINGLE MARKED CROSSWALK WITHOUT
A SINGLE SAFE PLACE TO CROSS
THE STREET.
YEAH, ALONG THIS CORRIDOR
THERE&apos;S SEVERAL BUS STOPS
THAT&apos;S HAVE BEEN OR AND YOU
KNOW, A THREE LANE CONVERSION
DONE HERE IN TWENTY FIFTEEN
WHICH WOULD SEEM TO HAVE BEEN
AN IDEAL CIRCUMSTANCE TO
INSTALL SOME REALLY HIGH
QUALITY CROSSWALKS WITH FLIGHTS
ISLANDS AND YET THERE&apos;S STILL
NOT A SINGLE ONE RIGHT BECAUSE
OF NOW LOOK AT DEXTER AVENUE,
LOOK AT LIBERTY, LOOK STADIUM
WHICH IS A WIDER AND BUSIER
ROAD.
LOOK AT ALL OF THEM HAVE A
CROSSWALK WITH FLASHING LIGHTS
OF IRELAND&apos;S YET MUCH CLOSER
INTERVALS THAN THIS AND I&apos;VE
BEEN FOLLOWING THIS THE CITY&apos;S
MONTHLY TRANSPORTATION UPDATES
IN THE CITY AND MANY RESIDENTS
IN THE NEIGHBORHOODS HERE HAVE
BEEN TRYING TO GET THEM TO
APPROVE AT SOME CROSSWALKS ON
THIS STRETCH OF ROAD.
&gt;&gt; BUT THEY HAVE NOT IT&apos;S
LITERALLY THE LEAST THEY COULD
DO TO IMPROVE PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
AND ACCESS HERE.
AND THIS IS ONLY THE TIP OF THE
ICEBERG FOR OUR ISSUES.
TRUNK LINES IN THE CITY AND IN
THE SAFETY CONSEQUENCES THAT
THEY HAVE BUT THEY HAVEN&apos;T DONE
A THING ABOUT THIS FOR SEVEN
YEARS.
SO WHAT HAPPENS INSTEAD?
WELL, PEOPLE ARE PLAYING
FROGGER TO GET ACROSS JACKSON
EVERY SINGLE DAY AND THIS IS
THE PART THAT SOME OF YOU SOME
OF YOU WHO HAVE OFTEN CLAIMED
TO BE PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
ADVOCATES HAVE NEVER SEEMS TO
GET PEOPLE WALKING OR BIKING
AREN&apos;T JUST OUT FOR A STROLL.
A LOT OF THE TIME THEY HAVE
SOMEWHERE THEY&apos;RE TRYING TO GET
IT IF YOU DON&apos;T GIVE THEM A
SAFE WAY TO GET THERE, THEY
WILL PICK AN UNSAFE WAY AND
THIS IS WHY WE NEED TO MAKE
CHANGES.
THIS IS WHY WE NEED TO CONSIDER
ALL OF OUR OPTIONS IN OUR
RELATIONSHIP WITH THEM.
AND FOR THOSE OF YOU WHO DON&apos;T
SUPPORT THIS.
WELL, YOU KNOW, INEVITABLY
SOMETHING AWFUL IS GOING TO
HAPPEN TO SOMEONE HERE AND I
GUESS THEIR BLOOD WILL BE ON
YOUR HANDS AND COUNCILMAN
COUNCILMAN LOUHI, SINCE YOU
OFTEN SEEM TO CARE ABOUT THE
SORT OF THING THIS IS IN YOUR
WORK SO I&apos;M JUST GOING TO CLOSE
BY SAYING I AM REALLY LOOKING
FORWARD TO NOVEMBER AND I HOPE
YOU ALL WHO REMAIN ON COUNCIL
AFTER THAT WE&apos;LL BRING THIS
PROPOSAL BACK UP AGAIN AFTER
THE NEW MEMBERS HAVE BEEN
SEATED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK
.
WHO IS VáSQUEZ?
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT
?
LUIS VASQUEZ CRESTAR SIX TIME
AT YOUR PHONE OK.
OK.
GREETINGS COUNCIL LUIS VASQUEZ
FROM THE FIRST I ALSO WANTED TO
EXPRESS MY DISAPPOINTMENT IN
THOSE WHO VOTED AGAINST CAA.
I THINK IT&apos;S A STUDY THE KIND
OF STUDY THAT WE NEED I HOPE
AFTER NOVEMBER PERHAPS THE NEW
COUNCIL CAN TAKE IT UP,
REINTRODUCE IT.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE GREAT IF
YOU WOULD MOVING FORWARD TO
CONTINUED PROGRESS IN TERMS
OF BICYCLIST PEDESTRIAN AND OUR
SAFETY AS WELL AS AS WE MOVE
ALONG AND YEAH, YOU PUT ALL OUR
RESOURCES TO BEAR TO CONTINUE
TO REDUCE DEATHS AND INJURIES
DUE TO CAR SUPREMO OR ALSO JUST
WANTED TO, YOU KNOW, CHIME IN
ABOUT PUBLIC HEALTH.
I ALSO HAVE A DEGREE IN PUBLIC
EARNED FROM UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AND ENVIRONMENTAL
AND INDUSTRIAL HEALTH AND HAVE
USED THE PRINCIPLES YOU KNOW,
OF NO CONTROL MEASURES TO
PRESERVE PEOPLE&apos;S HEALTH AND
KNOWING THAT COVID-19 IS AN
AIRBORNE VIRUS, YOU KNOW, I
RELIED ON IT IN 95 FROM AWANA
MAINLY BECAUSE YOU KNOW, I KNOW
HOW TO PROTECT MYSELF AND I
STILL WEARING NINETY FIVE
WHENEVER I TRAVEL ON PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION, WHENEVER I GO
SHOPPING NOT OUTSIDE YOU KNOW
MY WIFE IS ALSO A NURSE IN THE
ANN ARBOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS.
SHE ALSO HAS A MASTERS DEGREE
IN PUBLIC HEALTH AND WEARS HER
MASKS RELIGIOUSLY.
YOU KNOW WE KNOW THIS PROTECTS
US BUT IT ALSO PROTECTS YOU AND
I WOULD ASK YOU TO JUST
CONTINUE TO CONSIDER THAT IN
YOUR DELIBERATIONS GOING
FORWARD ABOUT PUBLIC HEALTH
MEASURES IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
THANK YOU.
I UNDISCOVERED DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; HI.
AND JUST GIVE A CHEER FROM THE
FORESWORE I&apos;M EXTREMELY
DISAPPOINTED AS OTHER CARS HAVE
BEEN IN THE REJECTION OF C8
STUDY TO TO CONSIDER TAKING
OVER STATE TRUNK LINES.
THESE ARE SOME OF OUR WORST
ROADS SAFETY WISE AND THAT HAS
NOT BEEN A GOOD PARTNER WITH US
IN IN MAINTAINING SAFETY FOR
PEDESTRIANS AND CYCLISTS.
&gt;&gt; WE NEED TO CONSIDER MOVING
FORWARD WITHOUT THEM.
I DON&apos;T ALSO KIND OF STRANGELY
THANK THOSE SAME COUNCIL
MEMBERS FOR THEIR ADVOCACY FOR
MAINTAINING OUR CURRENT ASKING
POLICY MASKING IS AN EXTREMELY
EASY ASK AND I DON&apos;T REALLY SEE
WHY WE FEEL IT IS A BIG DEAL TO
TELL PEOPLE TO MASK UP AT AN
INDOOR SETTING IN LIGHT OF THE
CHANGES TO THE MASKING POLICY,
I&apos;M HOPING THAT SOMEONE CAN
EXPLAIN WHAT IF ANY MEASURES
HAVE BEEN TAKEN TO IMPROVE
VENTILATION IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS.
HOW MANY CHANGES PER HOUR DO WE
HAVE WITH OUTSIDE AND WHAT KIND
OF FILTERING IS IN PLACE?
DO WE HAVE ANYBODY RUNNING CRT
MONITORS IN COUNCIL CHAMBERS IS
KIND OF A PROXY FOR THAT
INFORMATION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
CARLA.
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER AND FIVE
THREE FOUR DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; OH THIS IS CALLED STUHLBARG
GOING FROM LOWERTOWN AGAIN.
I&apos;D LIKE TO MAKE A COUPLE
OF COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; ONE IS ON THE END THAT
PUBLIC PARTICIPATION THAT YOU
COUNTERMELODIES FOR RAISING
THAT AND ENCOURAGE OTHER PEOPLE
TO PROMOTE IT.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;VE BEEN FOLLOWING THIS FOR
A LOT OF YEARS AND IT LOOKS
LIKE THAT IS FINALLY SERIOUS
ABOUT DOING SOMETHING SO PUBLIC
PARTICIPATION IS AVAILABLE AT
HOPEFULLY PEOPLE WILL FIND THAT
SITE GO ONLINE AND ADD COMMENTS
TO THAT THE PRESENTATION
OF THERE THERE&apos;S THE VIDEO SIX
MINUTES NEAR THE END THAT
EXPLAINS IT PRETTY WELL.
BUT THAT&apos;S PART OF THE WORK
NOW.
SO LET&apos;S GET OUR TWO CENTS.
EVERYBODY CAN PROMOTE THAT TO
YOUR CONSTITUENTS THAT JUST
PEOPLE WOULD WANT.
BUT IT&apos;S PRETTY IMPACTFUL FOR
THE CITY AND FOR PEOPLE&apos;S LIVES
BLOWS OVER TO SUSTAINABLE
PUBLIC.
WE DO HAVE THE ABILITY TO DO A
LOT MORE THAN WE&apos;RE DOING.
THIS IS A CRISIS OR IT&apos;S NOT
WHERE YOU VOTED A DAY TO ZERO
WE&apos;RE GOING TO TRY TO BE
PEACEFUL OR WE&apos;RE NOT THE PATH
WE&apos;RE ON.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO NEED HIM I DON&apos;T
KNOW MAYBE TWENTY TWENTY I WILL
BUY A LOT OF ASSETS BUT IF WE
DON&apos;T DO BETTER ABOUT MAKING
NEW CONSTRUCTION SUSTAINABLY
BUILT ELECTRIFICATION ET WE
SIMPLY DIG OURSELVES IN A HOLE
THAT WE CANNOT MATHEMATICALLY
GET OUT OF WITH EVERYTHING ELSE
WE&apos;RE GOING TO DO WE&apos;RE GOING
TO GO TO THE VILLAGE IN
NOVEMBER AND ALL THE WONDERFUL
THINGS WE CAN DO WITH THAT
MONEY.
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO DIG OURSELVES
OUT.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE ACTUALLY ABLE TO CLIMB
OUT OF THE HOLE THAT WE DIG
OURSELVES
IF WE KEEP UP WITH
NEW CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT
ELECTRIFICATION AND OTHER
SUSTAINABLE BUILDING TECHNIQUES
AND WE CAN PUT THAT INTO OUR
CODE , WE CAN DO A LOT BETTER
THAN WE&apos;RE DOING.
AND WHEN I HEAR AT THE TABLE
WELL THERE&apos;S NOTHING WE COULD
DO TONIGHT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S A SMALL TASK, ET
CETERA.
IT&apos;S THE WORK YOU DO
BEFOREHAND, THE WORK YOU DO
AHEAD OF TIME THAT SETS UP THE
BODY TO MAKE BETTER DECISIONS
WHEN THE APPLICATION IS BEFORE.
FOR EXAMPLE, PC ONE A REZONING
IS NOT THE RIGHT WAY TO ADDRESS
THIS AS WE GO FORWARD THERE
WILL BE IMPROVEMENTS IN OUR
ABILITY AND OTHER THINGS WE CAN
DO TO REQUIRE OR INCENTIVIZE
SUSTAINABILITY BUT WE MASTER A
LOT OF PERSONS WITHOUT THAT
THIRTY SEVEN HOUR CODE WITHOUT
THAT IN THAT NEW ZONING
ORDINANCE THEN IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
REALLY HARD TO CLAW BACK ALL
THOSE REASONINGS WHEN WE HAVE
THE ABILITY IT PUT THAT IN OUR
ZONING ORDINANCE.
WE ALSO HAVE THE HOUSING
CODE AND WE HAVE OTHER PLACES
TO GO WHERE WE DO HAVE THE
ABILITY TO GET MORE
SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR NEW
CONSTRUCTION.
&gt;&gt; NO PLACE PUT THAT IN WHILE
YOU CAN.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK MAYOR.
THERE ARE NO OTHER CALLERS ON
THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEEING NO ONE PUBLIC COMMENT
HIS CLOTHES ARE THERE
COMMUNICATIONS FROM COUNCIL
COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER?
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
I KNOW THIS IS KIND OF SHORT
NOTICE BUT I WAS JUST KIND
OF SKIMMING THROUGH THE AH OUR
NOTICES HERE AND I SEE THAT
THIS WEDNESDAY ALL DAY
ESSENTIALLY NAWASH WASHINGTON
BETWEEN THAYER AND FLETCHER IS
A CAMPUS FIRE SAFETY AWARENESS
EVENT AND I KNOW A LOT OF IT.
THERE&apos;S BEEN STUDENTS WATCHING
BECAUSE OF THE RIGHT TO RENEW
AND SO ON AND SO I WANT TO PASS
THAT ALONG THAT SOME OF THE
FOLKS IN THE FOURTH WARD HAVE
REALLY EMBRACED THIS NOTION
OF THE FIRE SAFETY AND THE
IMPORTANCE OF THAT ON CAMPUS.
&gt;&gt; AND I I KNOW ARENAL
INSPECTORS, YOU KNOW, FOCUS ON
THAT AND SOME OTHER THINGS TOO
.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO PUT THAT
OUT THERE.
THAT&apos;S AN ALL DAY EVENT.
AND THEN I ALSO WANTED TO KIND
OF GIVE A PERSONAL THANKS TO A
FAREWELL TO BETH COLLINS.
SOME OF YOU MIGHT KNOW BETH
COLLINS NAME OR OR MAYBE SERVED
HER SHOES ON THE ELIZABETH DEAN
FUND COMMITTEE.
SHE HAD TO RESIGN.
SHE&apos;S MOVING OUT OF STATE AND
SHE WAS ALSO THE SECRETARY
OF THE CARD GROUP MOST RECENTLY
AND YOU KNOW, SHE KIND
OF REALLY EMBRACED WHAT KIND
OF RESIDENT VOLUNTEERISM IS AND
SHE WAS ALWAYS LOOKING FOR A
WAY TO HELP MAKE THE COMMUNITY
BETTER AND YOU KNOW, SHE&apos;S
GOING TO BE MISSED.
SO I JUST WANTED TO SAY THANKS
FOR YOUR YOUR SERVICE ON THOSE
COMMITTEES AND GROUPS AND JUST
KIND OF GENERALLY FOR, YOU
KNOW, BEING A GOOD NEIGHBOR.
&gt;&gt; SO YOU&apos;LL BE MISSED.
THANK YOU FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL COUNCILMAN
GRISWOLD.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO THANK OUR CITY
ATTORNEY FOR THE UPDATE TONIGHT
ON THE APPEALS COURT DECISION.
&gt;&gt; I ALSO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT WE HAVE A DUAL PATH, WE
HAVE THE LEGAL PATH AND WE ALSO
HAVE THE EPA PATH AND CARD WILL
BE HAVING A MEETING OF THEIR
EXECUTIVE BOARD TOMORROW AND
THEN TWO MEMBERS OF THE CURRENT
EXECUTIVE BOARD WILL BE
PRESENTING TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION ON THURSDAY NIGHT.
SO I JUST WANT TO LET THE
PUBLIC KNOW THAT WE ARE STILL
AGGRESSIVELY PURSUING BOTH
PATHS AND DOING EVERYTHING
POSSIBLE.
I ALSO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
M THAT IS NOT ALWAYS AS
DIFFICULT AS WE MAKE OUT AND I
DID GO TO A MEETING OF ELECTED
OFFICIALS REGARDING NORTH MAIN
STREET THAT INCLUDED STATE
LEVEL ELECTED OFFICIALS AND
REPRESENTATIVES FROM M DOT AND
I THOUGHT THAT THERE WAS SOME
CREATIVE THINKING THERE WHEN I
DID SEE PAUL JEDBURGH WHO IS
THE DIRECTOR OF M DOT A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO HE ASKED ME HOW
JACKSON ROAD WAS FUNCTIONING.
SO I THINK THAT WE NEED TO RELY
ON OUR ELECTED OFFICIALS TO
DEVELOP BETTER RELATIONSHIP
WITH MY DAD .
&gt;&gt; AND LASTLY, I WANT TO SAY
THAT WE SEEM TO ALWAYS BE ABLE
TO COUNT ON OUR STATE OFFICIALS
BECAUSE EVEN WE DON&apos;T KNOW WHO
WITHIN THE STATE ARE SOMEONE
ADVOCATED FOR AND DELIVERED 20
MILLION DOLLARS FOR THE
RIVERFRONT PROJECT IN ANN ARBOR
THAT THE ROXBURY GROUP IS
DEVELOPING AND THERE&apos;S A
PRIVATE CONSERVANCY THAT WAS
FORMED TO RECEIVE THIS TWENTY
MILLION DOLLAR WINDFALL.
SO THANK YOU TO THE STATE FOR
THEIR COMMUNICATION ON COUNCIL
COUNCILOR SONG.
I PROMISED THEM COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS TO SHARE THE
THERE IS AN ARTICLE RECENTLY
THAT WAS PUBLISHED LOOKING FOR
THERE ARE ONE HUNDRED FOUR
ADDITIONAL VOLUNTEERS FOR A
NUMBER OF COMMISSIONS.
THERE ARE 100 POSITIONS.
&gt;&gt; SHOULD FOLKS BE UNSATISFIED
WITH OUR PERFORMANCE HERE YOU
HAVE THE OPTION OF SERVING ON
INSTITUTE BOARDS SUCH AS THE
BOARD OF HEALTH CARE OPENINGS
THERE ON THE COUNTY ROAD
COMMISSION.
THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF OPPORTUNITIES TO SHARE
COMMUNITY EXPERTIZE AND
PRIORITIZE THE WORK AT THE
COUNTY LEVEL.
THANK YOU FOR MENTIONING OUR
FEDERAL REPS, STATE AND REPS.
I ALMOST I WAS ALMOST FORGOT
LAST WEEK I HAD THE PLEASURE
AND HONOR OF MEETING PRESIDENT
BIDEN AND TOOK THE OPPORTUNITY
TO WORK WITH CITY STAFF WHO
QUICKLY PULLED TOGETHER A ONE
PAGER AND INVITED THE PRESIDENT
HOPEFULLY TO VISIT OUR
BEAUTIFUL CITY BUT ALSO
ADVOCATE FOR WELL SHARE OUR
PLANS TO HAVE THE LARGEST SOLAR
INFILL PROJECT IN THE COUNTRY.
SO THANK TO STAFF FOR THAT VERY
SHORT NOTICE AND BEING ABLE TO
PULL THAT TOGETHER IN SHORT
NOTICE HOPEFULLY WE CAN
ANTICIPATE WE CAN CROSS OUR
FINGERS AND AND HOPE THAT
PERHAPS PRESIDENT BIDEN AND
SOME OF HIS TIME WILL BE ABLE
TO VISIT THE CITY.
FURTHER DISCUSSION, FURTHER
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA SINGH,
MY COUNCILOR OUR DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE ADJOURNED